{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}{\f1 Consolas;}}
{\colortbl ;\red235\green235\blue235;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440
\viewkind4\uc1
\pard\qc\b\f0\fs32\sa240 Appendix: Full Source Code Listing\par
\pard\qc\f0\fs24\sa160 Secure Cloud-Based Electronic Health Record System with Role-Based Access Control\par
\pard\qc\f0\fs22\sa120 Prepared as a dissertation appendix document for Microsoft Word.\par
\pard\qc\f0\fs20\sa120 Generated on 19 April 2026\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs22\sa180 Included source code scope:\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 Backend: server setup, database configuration, seed script, middleware, routes, and package configuration.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 Frontend: login page, access page, stylesheet, shared JavaScript, and role-specific dashboards.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 Excluded items: node_modules, SQLite database binaries, and package-lock.json because they are generated or third-party dependency artifacts.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs22\sa180 How the implemented system works:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - A user opens the login page, enters credentials, and the frontend submits the request to the authentication API.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - The backend verifies the credentials, creates a JWT session token, and returns the user role together with identity details.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - The frontend stores the token locally and redirects the user to the correct dashboard for admin, clinician, or patient access.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Each dashboard calls only the API routes relevant to that role, while the backend middleware validates tokens and checks roles before responding.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - All major access decisions are written to the audit log, and all operational data is stored in the SQLite database.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs22\sa180 How this appendix is organised:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Each appendix section begins with a short description of the file\u\u\us purpose in the system.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - A second note explains how that file is used during system execution or user interaction.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - A short responsibility list summarises the main features implemented in that file.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - The complete file contents are then reproduced in full with line numbers for dissertation reference.\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs28\sa220 Appendix Structure\par
\pard\b\f0\fs22\sa160 Appendix A: Backend Source Code\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.1  Server Entry Point  (backend/server.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.2  Database Configuration  (backend/config/database.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.3  Database Seeding Script  (backend/config/seed.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.4  Authentication and RBAC Middleware  (backend/middleware/auth.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.5  Authentication Routes  (backend/routes/auth.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.6  Administrative Routes  (backend/routes/admin.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.7  Clinician Routes  (backend/routes/clinician.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.8  Patient Routes  (backend/routes/patient.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 A.9  Backend Package Configuration  (backend/package.json)\par
\pard\b\f0\fs22\sa160 Appendix B: Frontend Source Code\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 B.1  System Login Page  (frontend/index.html)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 B.2  Access Denied Page  (frontend/access-denied.html)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 B.3  Global Stylesheet  (frontend/assets/css/style.css)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 B.4  Shared Frontend Script  (frontend/assets/js/app.js)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 B.5  Administrator Dashboard  (frontend/pages/admin/dashboard.html)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 B.6  Clinician Dashboard  (frontend/pages/clinician/dashboard.html)\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa80 B.7  Patient Dashboard  (frontend/pages/patient/dashboard.html)\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs30\sa240 Appendix A: Backend Source Code\par
\pard\f0\fs21\sa140 This section contains the full backend source code listings for the Node.js, Express, SQLite, and RBAC implementation.\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.1: Server Entry Point\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/server.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Express application bootstrap and route registration.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file is the main backend entry point. It starts the Express application, initializes the database schema, configures middleware, mounts the API routes, and serves the frontend files.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is executed when the backend server starts. In the implemented system it acts as the integration layer that connects the authentication module, admin module, clinician module, patient module, database configuration, and static frontend delivery.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Loads environment variables and starts the HTTP server on the configured port.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Calls initializeDatabase() so the SQLite schema exists before requests are processed.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Registers common middleware such as CORS, JSON parsing, and request logging.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Mounts the auth, admin, clinician, and patient route modules under /api.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Serves the frontend directory and returns index.html for non-API routes.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  require('dotenv').config();\line   2  const express = require('express');\line   3  const cors = require('cors');\line   4  const morgan = require('morgan');\line   5  const path = require('path');\line   6  const \{ initializeDatabase \} = require('./config/database');\line   7  \line   8  // Initialize DB\line   9  initializeDatabase();\line  10  \line  11  const app = express();\line  12  const PORT = process.env.PORT || 5000;\line  13  \line  14  // Middleware\line  15  app.use(cors());\line  16  app.use(express.json());\line  17  app.use(morgan('dev'));\line  18  \line  19  // Serve frontend static files\line  20  app.use(express.static(path.join(__dirname, '..', 'frontend')));\line  21  \line  22  // API Routes\line  23  app.use('/api/auth', require('./routes/auth'));\line  24  app.use('/api/admin', require('./routes/admin'));\line  25  app.use('/api/clinician', require('./routes/clinician'));\line  26  app.use('/api/patient', require('./routes/patient'));\line  27  \line  28  // Health check\line  29  app.get('/api/health', (req, res) => \{\line  30    res.json(\{ status: 'ok', system: 'EHR RBAC System', version: '1.0.0', timestamp: new Date().toISOString() \});\line  31  \});\line  32  \line  33  // Access control test - attempt to access admin resource as other roles (demo)\line  34  app.get('/api/test/access-denied', (req, res) => \{\line  35    res.status(403).json(\{\line  36      success: false,\line  37      message: 'Access denied. This resource requires admin role.',\line  38      status: 'DENIED'\line  39    \});\line  40  \});\line  41  \line  42  // Serve frontend for all non-API routes (SPA support)\line  43  app.get('*', (req, res) => \{\line  44    if (!req.path.startsWith('/api')) \{\line  45      res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname, '..', 'frontend', 'index.html'));\line  46    \}\line  47  \});\line  48  \line  49  // Error handler\line  50  app.use((err, req, res, next) => \{\line  51    console.error(err.stack);\line  52    res.status(500).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Internal server error.' \});\line  53  \});\line  54  \line  55  app.listen(PORT, () => \{\line  56    console.log(`\line  57  \u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\line  58  \u\u\u   Secure EHR System with RBAC - Running   \u\u\u\line  59  \u\u\u   Port: $\{PORT\}                               \u\u\u\line  60  \u\u\u   URL:  http://localhost:$\{PORT\}              \u\u\u\line  61  \u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\u\line  62    `);\line  63  \});\line  64  \line  65  module.exports = app;\line  66  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.2: Database Configuration\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/config/database.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: SQLite database initialization and schema creation.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file defines the persistent data layer for the EHR application by connecting to SQLite and creating all required system tables.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is imported by the server, middleware, seed script, and route handlers. The initializeDatabase() function is used at startup and before seeding to guarantee that the RBAC, user, clinical, appointment, and audit tables exist.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Creates the roles, permissions, role_permissions, users, patients, medical_records, appointments, and audit_logs tables.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Uses better-sqlite3 for a lightweight embedded database suitable for a dissertation prototype.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Enables WAL mode to improve concurrent read/write behaviour.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Enables foreign key enforcement to preserve relational integrity across linked tables.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  const Database = require('better-sqlite3');\line   2  const path = require('path');\line   3  \line   4  const dbPath = path.join(__dirname, '..', 'ehr.db');\line   5  const db = new Database(dbPath);\line   6  \line   7  // Enable WAL mode for better performance\line   8  db.pragma('journal_mode = WAL');\line   9  db.pragma('foreign_keys = ON');\line  10  \line  11  function initializeDatabase() \{\line  12    db.exec(`\line  13      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS roles (\line  14        id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\line  15        role_name TEXT NOT NULL UNIQUE,\line  16        description TEXT,\line  17        created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP\line  18      );\line  19  \line  20      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS permissions (\line  21        id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\line  22        permission_name TEXT NOT NULL UNIQUE,\line  23        description TEXT\line  24      );\line  25  \line  26      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS role_permissions (\line  27        role_id INTEGER NOT NULL,\line  28        permission_id INTEGER NOT NULL,\line  29        PRIMARY KEY (role_id, permission_id),\line  30        FOREIGN KEY (role_id) REFERENCES roles(id),\line  31        FOREIGN KEY (permission_id) REFERENCES permissions(id)\line  32      );\line  33  \line  34      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS users (\line  35        id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\line  36        name TEXT NOT NULL,\line  37        email TEXT NOT NULL UNIQUE,\line  38        password_hash TEXT NOT NULL,\line  39        role_id INTEGER NOT NULL,\line  40        is_active INTEGER DEFAULT 1,\line  41        created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,\line  42        last_login DATETIME,\line  43        FOREIGN KEY (role_id) REFERENCES roles(id)\line  44      );\line  45  \line  46      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS patients (\line  47        id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\line  48        user_id INTEGER NOT NULL UNIQUE,\line  49        date_of_birth TEXT,\line  50        gender TEXT,\line  51        blood_group TEXT,\line  52        phone TEXT,\line  53        address TEXT,\line  54        emergency_contact TEXT,\line  55        emergency_phone TEXT,\line  56        insurance_number TEXT,\line  57        allergies TEXT,\line  58        created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,\line  59        FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id)\line  60      );\line  61  \line  62      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS medical_records (\line  63        id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\line  64        patient_id INTEGER NOT NULL,\line  65        clinician_id INTEGER NOT NULL,\line  66        visit_date TEXT NOT NULL,\line  67        chief_complaint TEXT,\line  68        diagnosis TEXT,\line  69        medications TEXT,\line  70        treatment_plan TEXT,\line  71        notes TEXT,\line  72        vital_signs TEXT,\line  73        lab_results TEXT,\line  74        created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,\line  75        updated_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,\line  76        FOREIGN KEY (patient_id) REFERENCES users(id),\line  77        FOREIGN KEY (clinician_id) REFERENCES users(id)\line  78      );\line  79  \line  80      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS appointments (\line  81        id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\line  82        patient_id INTEGER NOT NULL,\line  83        clinician_id INTEGER NOT NULL,\line  84        appointment_date TEXT NOT NULL,\line  85        appointment_time TEXT NOT NULL,\line  86        reason TEXT,\line  87        status TEXT DEFAULT 'scheduled',\line  88        notes TEXT,\line  89        created_at DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,\line  90        FOREIGN KEY (patient_id) REFERENCES users(id),\line  91        FOREIGN KEY (clinician_id) REFERENCES users(id)\line  92      );\line  93  \line  94      CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS audit_logs (\line  95        id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,\line  96        user_id INTEGER,\line  97        user_email TEXT,\line  98        user_role TEXT,\line  99        action TEXT NOT NULL,\line 100        resource TEXT,\line 101        method TEXT,\line 102        status TEXT,\line 103        details TEXT,\line 104        ip_address TEXT,\line 105        timestamp DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP\line 106      );\line 107    `);\line 108  \line 109    console.log('[DB] Database initialized successfully');\line 110  \}\line 111  \line 112  module.exports = \{ db, initializeDatabase \};\line 113  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.3: Database Seeding Script\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/config/seed.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Synthetic data creation for roles, users, appointments, and medical records.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file populates the database with demonstration data required to test and present the RBAC-based EHR system.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is run during project setup to create the default roles, permissions, demo user accounts, patient profiles, medical records, appointments, and sample audit logs used for dissertation screenshots, evaluation, and system demonstrations.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Creates the three role categories: admin, clinician, and patient.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Maps each role to the permissions that enforce the RBAC model.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Hashes the shared demo password using bcrypt before storing users.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Creates synthetic Nigerian-style patient profiles, appointments, and consultation records.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Seeds audit logs so the security and accountability features can be demonstrated immediately.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  const bcrypt = require('bcryptjs');\line   2  const \{ db, initializeDatabase \} = require('./database');\line   3  \line   4  function seedDatabase() \{\line   5    initializeDatabase();\line   6  \line   7    // Insert Roles\line   8    const insertRole = db.prepare('INSERT OR IGNORE INTO roles (role_name, description) VALUES (?, ?)');\line   9    insertRole.run('admin', 'System administrator with full access');\line  10    insertRole.run('clinician', 'Healthcare professional with patient record access');\line  11    insertRole.run('patient', 'Patient with access to own health records');\line  12  \line  13    // Insert Permissions\line  14    const insertPerm = db.prepare('INSERT OR IGNORE INTO permissions (permission_name, description) VALUES (?, ?)');\line  15    const perms = [\line  16      ['manage_users', 'Create, update, delete users'],\line  17      ['view_audit_logs', 'Access system audit logs'],\line  18      ['view_all_records', 'View all patient records'],\line  19      ['system_dashboard', 'Access system statistics dashboard'],\line  20      ['view_patient_records', 'View patient medical records'],\line  21      ['create_medical_record', 'Create new medical records'],\line  22      ['update_medical_record', 'Update existing medical records'],\line  23      ['manage_appointments', 'Create and manage appointments'],\line  24      ['view_own_records', 'View own health records'],\line  25      ['view_own_appointments', 'View own appointments'],\line  26      ['view_own_profile', 'View own patient profile'],\line  27    ];\line  28    perms.forEach(([name, desc]) => insertPerm.run(name, desc));\line  29  \line  30    // Map role IDs\line  31    const adminRole = db.prepare('SELECT id FROM roles WHERE role_name = ?').get('admin');\line  32    const clinicianRole = db.prepare('SELECT id FROM roles WHERE role_name = ?').get('clinician');\line  33    const patientRole = db.prepare('SELECT id FROM roles WHERE role_name = ?').get('patient');\line  34  \line  35    // Map permission IDs\line  36    const getPermId = (name) => db.prepare('SELECT id FROM permissions WHERE permission_name = ?').get(name).id;\line  37  \line  38    // Role-Permission assignments\line  39    const insertRP = db.prepare('INSERT OR IGNORE INTO role_permissions (role_id, permission_id) VALUES (?, ?)');\line  40  \line  41    // Admin gets all\line  42    perms.forEach(([name]) => insertRP.run(adminRole.id, getPermId(name)));\line  43  \line  44    // Clinician permissions\line  45    ['view_patient_records', 'create_medical_record', 'update_medical_record', 'manage_appointments', 'view_own_profile'].forEach(p =>\line  46      insertRP.run(clinicianRole.id, getPermId(p))\line  47    );\line  48  \line  49    // Patient permissions\line  50    ['view_own_records', 'view_own_appointments', 'view_own_profile'].forEach(p =>\line  51      insertRP.run(patientRole.id, getPermId(p))\line  52    );\line  53  \line  54    // Insert Users\line  55    const hash = bcrypt.hashSync('Password123!', 10);\line  56    const insertUser = db.prepare('INSERT OR IGNORE INTO users (name, email, password_hash, role_id) VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?)');\line  57  \line  58    // Admin\line  59    insertUser.run('System Administrator', 'admin@ehrsystem.com', hash, adminRole.id);\line  60  \line  61    // Clinicians\line  62    insertUser.run('Dr. Amina Okafor', 'amina.okafor@ehrsystem.com', hash, clinicianRole.id);\line  63    insertUser.run('Dr. James Adeyemi', 'james.adeyemi@ehrsystem.com', hash, clinicianRole.id);\line  64    insertUser.run('Nurse Fatima Bello', 'fatima.bello@ehrsystem.com', hash, clinicianRole.id);\line  65  \line  66    // Patients\line  67    const patientData = [\line  68      ['Emeka Chukwu', 'emeka.chukwu@gmail.com', '1985-03-14', 'Male', 'O+', '+234-802-111-0001'],\line  69      ['Ngozi Obi', 'ngozi.obi@gmail.com', '1990-07-22', 'Female', 'A+', '+234-803-222-0002'],\line  70      ['Tunde Afolabi', 'tunde.afolabi@gmail.com', '1978-11-05', 'Male', 'B-', '+234-805-333-0003'],\line  71      ['Chidinma Eze', 'chidinma.eze@gmail.com', '1995-01-30', 'Female', 'AB+', '+234-807-444-0004'],\line  72      ['Biodun Adeleke', 'biodun.adeleke@gmail.com', '1982-09-18', 'Male', 'O-', '+234-809-555-0005'],\line  73      ['Amara Nwosu', 'amara.nwosu@gmail.com', '1998-04-12', 'Female', 'A-', '+234-801-666-0006'],\line  74      ['Yemi Sanni', 'yemi.sanni@gmail.com', '1975-12-28', 'Male', 'B+', '+234-806-777-0007'],\line  75      ['Kemi Babatunde', 'kemi.babatunde@gmail.com', '2000-06-15', 'Female', 'O+', '+234-804-888-0008'],\line  76    ];\line  77  \line  78    const insertPatientProfile = db.prepare(`\line  79      INSERT OR IGNORE INTO patients (user_id, date_of_birth, gender, blood_group, phone, address, emergency_contact, emergency_phone, allergies)\line  80      VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)\line  81    `);\line  82  \line  83    const addresses = [\line  84      '12 Adeola Crescent, Lagos', '45 University Road, Ibadan', '8 Ring Road, Benin City',\line  85      '23 Wuse Zone 4, Abuja', '67 Agodi GRA, Ibadan', '11 Trans Amadi, Port Harcourt',\line  86      '3 Old Aba Road, Umuahia', '88 Gombe Road, Kaduna'\line  87    ];\line  88  \line  89    const allergies = ['Penicillin', 'None', 'Sulfa drugs', 'Aspirin', 'None', 'Latex', 'None', 'Codeine'];\line  90  \line  91    patientData.forEach(([name, email, dob, gender, blood, phone], i) => \{\line  92      insertUser.run(name, email, hash, patientRole.id);\line  93      const user = db.prepare('SELECT id FROM users WHERE email = ?').get(email);\line  94      if (user) \{\line  95        insertPatientProfile.run(user.id, dob, gender, blood, phone, addresses[i], 'Next of Kin', '+234-800-000-000' + i, allergies[i]);\line  96      \}\line  97    \});\line  98  \line  99    // Fetch clinician and patient IDs\line 100    const clinician1 = db.prepare("SELECT id FROM users WHERE email='amina.okafor@ehrsystem.com'").get();\line 101    const clinician2 = db.prepare("SELECT id FROM users WHERE email='james.adeyemi@ehrsystem.com'").get();\line 102    const patient1 = db.prepare("SELECT id FROM users WHERE email='emeka.chukwu@gmail.com'").get();\line 103    const patient2 = db.prepare("SELECT id FROM users WHERE email='ngozi.obi@gmail.com'").get();\line 104    const patient3 = db.prepare("SELECT id FROM users WHERE email='tunde.afolabi@gmail.com'").get();\line 105    const patient4 = db.prepare("SELECT id FROM users WHERE email='chidinma.eze@gmail.com'").get();\line 106    const patient5 = db.prepare("SELECT id FROM users WHERE email='biodun.adeleke@gmail.com'").get();\line 107  \line 108    // Medical Records\line 109    const insertRecord = db.prepare(`\line 110      INSERT OR IGNORE INTO medical_records\line 111      (patient_id, clinician_id, visit_date, chief_complaint, diagnosis, medications, treatment_plan, notes, vital_signs, lab_results)\line 112      VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)\line 113    `);\line 114  \line 115    const records = [\line 116      [patient1.id, clinician1.id, '2026-01-10', 'Persistent cough and fever', 'Acute Bronchitis',\line 117       'Amoxicillin 500mg TDS x 7 days, Paracetamol 1g PRN', 'Rest, increased fluid intake, follow-up in 1 week',\line 118       'Patient appears moderately unwell. Chest clear on auscultation. No signs of pneumonia.',\line 119       'BP: 122/78, Temp: 38.2\u\uC, HR: 88bpm, SpO2: 97%', 'CXR: No consolidation. FBC: WBC 11.2'],\line 120  \line 121      [patient1.id, clinician2.id, '2026-02-15', 'Routine check-up', 'Hypertension Stage 1',\line 122       'Amlodipine 5mg OD', 'Low-sodium diet, exercise 30min daily, blood pressure monitoring',\line 123       'BP elevated on three readings. Started antihypertensive therapy.',\line 124       'BP: 148/94, Temp: 36.8\u\uC, HR: 76bpm, SpO2: 99%', 'Fasting glucose: 5.2 mmol/L, Cholesterol: 5.8 mmol/L'],\line 125  \line 126      [patient2.id, clinician1.id, '2026-01-22', 'Abdominal pain and nausea', 'Gastritis',\line 127       'Omeprazole 20mg OD, Metoclopramide 10mg TDS', 'Bland diet, avoid NSAIDs, alcohol and spicy food',\line 128       'H. pylori rapid test negative. Symptoms improving on PPIs.',\line 129       'BP: 110/70, Temp: 36.9\u\uC, HR: 72bpm, SpO2: 99%', 'H. pylori antigen: Negative, LFTs: Normal'],\line 130  \line 131      [patient3.id, clinician2.id, '2026-02-08', 'Joint pain and swelling', 'Rheumatoid Arthritis',\line 132       'Methotrexate 10mg weekly, Folic acid 5mg weekly, Ibuprofen 400mg TDS PRN',\line 133       'Physiotherapy referral, reduce physical strain, steroid injection if no improvement',\line 134       'Symmetrical joint involvement of wrists and MCPs. RF positive.',\line 135       'BP: 130/82, Temp: 36.7\u\uC, HR: 80bpm, SpO2: 98%', 'RF: 64 IU/mL, ESR: 48mm/hr, Anti-CCP: Positive'],\line 136  \line 137      [patient4.id, clinician1.id, '2026-03-01', 'Fatigue and weight loss', 'Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus',\line 138       'Metformin 500mg BD, Lifestyle modifications', 'Diabetic diet, monitor blood glucose daily, HbA1c every 3 months',\line 139       'Patient newly diagnosed. BMI 28.4. No diabetic complications detected yet.',\line 140       'BP: 118/76, Temp: 36.5\u\uC, HR: 78bpm, SpO2: 98%', 'HbA1c: 8.2%, Fasting glucose: 11.4 mmol/L, Urine dipstick: Glucose +'],\line 141  \line 142      [patient5.id, clinician2.id, '2026-03-12', 'Chest pain on exertion', 'Stable Angina',\line 143       'Aspirin 75mg OD, Atorvastatin 40mg nocte, GTN spray PRN', 'Cardiac rehabilitation, stress reduction, follow-up ETT',\line 144       'ECG: Normal sinus rhythm. No ST changes at rest. Troponin negative.',\line 145       'BP: 138/88, Temp: 36.8\u\uC, HR: 82bpm, SpO2: 97%', 'ECG: NSR, Troponin I: <0.01 ng/mL, Cholesterol: 6.2 mmol/L'],\line 146    ];\line 147    records.forEach(r => insertRecord.run(...r));\line 148  \line 149    // Appointments\line 150    const insertAppt = db.prepare(`\line 151      INSERT OR IGNORE INTO appointments\line 152      (patient_id, clinician_id, appointment_date, appointment_time, reason, status, notes)\line 153      VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)\line 154    `);\line 155  \line 156    const appointments = [\line 157      [patient1.id, clinician1.id, '2026-04-15', '09:00', 'Follow-up for bronchitis', 'scheduled', 'Check resolution of symptoms'],\line 158      [patient1.id, clinician2.id, '2026-04-20', '11:00', 'BP monitoring follow-up', 'scheduled', 'Evaluate antihypertensive response'],\line 159      [patient2.id, clinician1.id, '2026-04-12', '10:30', 'Gastroscopy review', 'completed', 'Review gastroscopy results'],\line 160      [patient3.id, clinician2.id, '2026-04-18', '14:00', 'Rheumatology review', 'scheduled', 'Assess response to methotrexate'],\line 161      [patient4.id, clinician1.id, '2026-04-22', '09:30', 'Diabetes 3-month review', 'scheduled', 'HbA1c and glucose monitoring'],\line 162      [patient5.id, clinician2.id, '2026-04-25', '16:00', 'Cardiology follow-up', 'scheduled', 'Post-ETT results review'],\line 163      [patient1.id, clinician1.id, '2026-03-10', '08:00', 'Initial consultation', 'completed', 'First visit'],\line 164      [patient2.id, clinician1.id, '2026-04-28', '13:00', 'Routine check-up', 'scheduled', ''],\line 165    ];\line 166    appointments.forEach(a => insertAppt.run(...a));\line 167  \line 168    // Seed some audit logs\line 169    const insertLog = db.prepare(`\line 170      INSERT INTO audit_logs (user_email, user_role, action, resource, method, status, ip_address)\line 171      VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)\line 172    `);\line 173  \line 174    insertLog.run('admin@ehrsystem.com', 'admin', 'LOGIN', '/api/auth/login', 'POST', 'GRANTED', '192.168.1.1');\line 175    insertLog.run('amina.okafor@ehrsystem.com', 'clinician', 'LOGIN', '/api/auth/login', 'POST', 'GRANTED', '192.168.1.5');\line 176    insertLog.run('emeka.chukwu@gmail.com', 'patient', 'VIEW_RECORDS', '/api/patient/records', 'GET', 'GRANTED', '192.168.1.10');\line 177    insertLog.run('unknown@hacker.com', null, 'UNAUTHORIZED_ACCESS', '/api/admin/users', 'GET', 'DENIED', '10.0.0.1');\line 178    insertLog.run('james.adeyemi@ehrsystem.com', 'clinician', 'CREATE_RECORD', '/api/clinician/records', 'POST', 'GRANTED', '192.168.1.6');\line 179    insertLog.run('amina.okafor@ehrsystem.com', 'clinician', 'VIEW_PATIENT', '/api/clinician/patients/1', 'GET', 'GRANTED', '192.168.1.5');\line 180    insertLog.run('ngozi.obi@gmail.com', 'patient', 'VIEW_APPOINTMENTS', '/api/patient/appointments', 'GET', 'GRANTED', '192.168.1.11');\line 181    insertLog.run('emeka.chukwu@gmail.com', 'patient', 'ACCESS_DENIED', '/api/admin/users', 'GET', 'DENIED', '192.168.1.10');\line 182  \line 183    console.log('[SEED] Database seeded successfully!');\line 184    console.log('\\nDefault login credentials (all passwords: Password123!):');\line 185    console.log('  Admin:     admin@ehrsystem.com');\line 186    console.log('  Clinician: amina.okafor@ehrsystem.com');\line 187    console.log('  Clinician: james.adeyemi@ehrsystem.com');\line 188    console.log('  Patient:   emeka.chukwu@gmail.com');\line 189    console.log('  Patient:   ngozi.obi@gmail.com');\line 190  \}\line 191  \line 192  seedDatabase();\line 193  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.4: Authentication and RBAC Middleware\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/middleware/auth.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: JWT verification, user resolution, and role-based access control helpers.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file contains the core security controls that protect backend resources through authentication, authorization, and auditing.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is imported by the route modules. authenticateToken validates bearer tokens, requireRole checks the user role before access is granted, generateToken issues session tokens during login, and logAudit records both successful and denied access attempts.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Validates JWT tokens and rejects missing, invalid, or expired credentials.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Loads the authenticated user from the database and attaches the user object to the request.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Enforces role-based access control for protected route groups.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Writes audit trail entries for denied access, invalid tokens, and authenticated actions.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Generates 8-hour JWT session tokens for logged-in users.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  const jwt = require('jsonwebtoken');\line   2  const \{ db \} = require('../config/database');\line   3  \line   4  const JWT_SECRET = process.env.JWT_SECRET || 'EHR_SECURE_JWT_SECRET_2026_RBAC';\line   5  \line   6  function authenticateToken(req, res, next) \{\line   7    const authHeader = req.headers['authorization'];\line   8    const token = authHeader && authHeader.split(' ')[1];\line   9  \line  10    if (!token) \{\line  11      logAudit(req, null, 'UNAUTHORIZED', 'DENIED', 'No token provided');\line  12      return res.status(401).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Access denied. Authentication required.' \});\line  13    \}\line  14  \line  15    try \{\line  16      const decoded = jwt.verify(token, JWT_SECRET);\line  17      const user = db.prepare('SELECT u.*, r.role_name FROM users u JOIN roles r ON u.role_id = r.id WHERE u.id = ? AND u.is_active = 1').get(decoded.userId);\line  18      if (!user) \{\line  19        return res.status(401).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Invalid token. User not found.' \});\line  20      \}\line  21      req.user = \{ id: user.id, name: user.name, email: user.email, role: user.role_name \};\line  22      next();\line  23    \} catch (err) \{\line  24      logAudit(req, null, 'INVALID_TOKEN', 'DENIED', err.message);\line  25      return res.status(403).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Invalid or expired token.' \});\line  26    \}\line  27  \}\line  28  \line  29  function requireRole(...roles) \{\line  30    return (req, res, next) => \{\line  31      if (!req.user) \{\line  32        return res.status(401).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Authentication required.' \});\line  33      \}\line  34      if (!roles.includes(req.user.role)) \{\line  35        logAudit(req, req.user, 'ACCESS_DENIED', 'DENIED', `Role $\{req.user.role\} not in [$\{roles.join(',')\}]`);\line  36        return res.status(403).json(\{\line  37          success: false,\line  38          message: `Access denied. Required role: $\{roles.join(' or ')\}. Your role: $\{req.user.role\}`\line  39        \});\line  40      \}\line  41      next();\line  42    \};\line  43  \}\line  44  \line  45  function requirePermission(permission) \{\line  46    return (req, res, next) => \{\line  47      if (!req.user) \{\line  48        return res.status(401).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Authentication required.' \});\line  49      \}\line  50      const hasPermission = db.prepare(`\line  51        SELECT rp.* FROM role_permissions rp\line  52        JOIN roles r ON rp.role_id = r.id\line  53        JOIN permissions p ON rp.permission_id = p.id\line  54        WHERE r.role_name = ? AND p.permission_name = ?\line  55      `).get(req.user.role, permission);\line  56  \line  57      if (!hasPermission) \{\line  58        logAudit(req, req.user, 'PERMISSION_DENIED', 'DENIED', `Missing permission: $\{permission\}`);\line  59        return res.status(403).json(\{\line  60          success: false,\line  61          message: `Access denied. You do not have '$\{permission\}' permission.`\line  62        \});\line  63      \}\line  64      next();\line  65    \};\line  66  \}\line  67  \line  68  function logAudit(req, user, action, status, details = '') \{\line  69    try \{\line  70      db.prepare(`\line  71        INSERT INTO audit_logs (user_id, user_email, user_role, action, resource, method, status, details, ip_address)\line  72        VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)\line  73      `).run(\line  74        user?.id || null,\line  75        user?.email || req.headers['x-user-email'] || null,\line  76        user?.role || null,\line  77        action,\line  78        req.originalUrl || req.url,\line  79        req.method,\line  80        status,\line  81        details,\line  82        req.ip || req.connection?.remoteAddress || 'unknown'\line  83      );\line  84    \} catch (e) \{ /* silent fail for audit */ \}\line  85  \}\line  86  \line  87  function generateToken(userId, role) \{\line  88    return jwt.sign(\{ userId, role \}, JWT_SECRET, \{ expiresIn: '8h' \});\line  89  \}\line  90  \line  91  module.exports = \{ authenticateToken, requireRole, requirePermission, logAudit, generateToken \};\line  92  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.5: Authentication Routes\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/routes/auth.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Login, logout, and current-user endpoints.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file exposes the authentication endpoints used by the frontend login page and authenticated dashboards.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It receives login credentials from the frontend, validates them against stored password hashes, issues JWT tokens for successful sessions, records authentication events in the audit log, and returns identity information used by the dashboards.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Processes POST /api/auth/login and verifies user credentials with bcrypt.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Updates the last_login timestamp after a successful login.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Returns the signed JWT token and role information consumed by the frontend.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides POST /api/auth/logout for session termination logging.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides GET /api/auth/me so the application can retrieve the current user profile and permissions.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  const express = require('express');\line   2  const bcrypt = require('bcryptjs');\line   3  const router = express.Router();\line   4  const \{ db \} = require('../config/database');\line   5  const \{ generateToken, logAudit, authenticateToken \} = require('../middleware/auth');\line   6  \line   7  // POST /api/auth/login\line   8  router.post('/login', (req, res) => \{\line   9    const \{ email, password \} = req.body;\line  10  \line  11    if (!email || !password) \{\line  12      return res.status(400).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Email and password are required.' \});\line  13    \}\line  14  \line  15    const user = db.prepare(`\line  16      SELECT u.*, r.role_name FROM users u\line  17      JOIN roles r ON u.role_id = r.id\line  18      WHERE u.email = ? AND u.is_active = 1\line  19    `).get(email.toLowerCase().trim());\line  20  \line  21    if (!user) \{\line  22      logAudit(req, null, 'LOGIN_FAILED', 'DENIED', `Email not found: $\{email\}`);\line  23      return res.status(401).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Invalid credentials.' \});\line  24    \}\line  25  \line  26    const validPassword = bcrypt.compareSync(password, user.password_hash);\line  27    if (!validPassword) \{\line  28      logAudit(req, \{ email: user.email, role: user.role_name \}, 'LOGIN_FAILED', 'DENIED', 'Invalid password');\line  29      return res.status(401).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Invalid credentials.' \});\line  30    \}\line  31  \line  32    // Update last login\line  33    db.prepare('UPDATE users SET last_login = CURRENT_TIMESTAMP WHERE id = ?').run(user.id);\line  34  \line  35    const token = generateToken(user.id, user.role_name);\line  36    logAudit(req, \{ id: user.id, email: user.email, role: user.role_name \}, 'LOGIN', 'GRANTED', 'Successful login');\line  37  \line  38    res.json(\{\line  39      success: true,\line  40      token,\line  41      user: \{\line  42        id: user.id,\line  43        name: user.name,\line  44        email: user.email,\line  45        role: user.role_name\line  46      \}\line  47    \});\line  48  \});\line  49  \line  50  // POST /api/auth/logout\line  51  router.post('/logout', authenticateToken, (req, res) => \{\line  52    logAudit(req, req.user, 'LOGOUT', 'GRANTED', 'User logged out');\line  53    res.json(\{ success: true, message: 'Logged out successfully.' \});\line  54  \});\line  55  \line  56  // GET /api/auth/me\line  57  router.get('/me', authenticateToken, (req, res) => \{\line  58    const user = db.prepare(`\line  59      SELECT u.id, u.name, u.email, u.created_at, u.last_login, r.role_name\line  60      FROM users u JOIN roles r ON u.role_id = r.id WHERE u.id = ?\line  61    `).get(req.user.id);\line  62  \line  63    const permissions = db.prepare(`\line  64      SELECT p.permission_name FROM permissions p\line  65      JOIN role_permissions rp ON p.id = rp.permission_id\line  66      JOIN roles r ON rp.role_id = r.id\line  67      WHERE r.role_name = ?\line  68    `).all(req.user.role).map(p => p.permission_name);\line  69  \line  70    res.json(\{ success: true, user: \{ ...user, permissions \} \});\line  71  \});\line  72  \line  73  module.exports = router;\line  74  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.6: Administrative Routes\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/routes/admin.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Admin dashboard, user management, audit logs, and records access.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file implements the administrator-only backend features for governance, monitoring, and system management.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is called by the admin dashboard to load system statistics, manage user accounts, inspect audit logs, review RBAC roles, and view all medical records across the platform.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Applies authenticateToken and requireRole("admin") to the whole route group.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Returns dashboard statistics such as user counts, record counts, appointments, and denied-access totals.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Supports user creation, update, and soft deactivation operations.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Allows filtered retrieval of audit logs for accountability review.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Exposes a complete records view so the administrator can inspect system-wide data.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  const express = require('express');\line   2  const bcrypt = require('bcryptjs');\line   3  const router = express.Router();\line   4  const \{ db \} = require('../config/database');\line   5  const \{ authenticateToken, requireRole, logAudit \} = require('../middleware/auth');\line   6  \line   7  // All admin routes require authentication and admin role\line   8  router.use(authenticateToken, requireRole('admin'));\line   9  \line  10  // GET /api/admin/dashboard - System statistics\line  11  router.get('/dashboard', (req, res) => \{\line  12    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_DASHBOARD', 'GRANTED');\line  13    const stats = \{\line  14      total_users: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM users").get().c,\line  15      total_patients: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM users u JOIN roles r ON u.role_id=r.id WHERE r.role_name='patient'").get().c,\line  16      total_clinicians: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM users u JOIN roles r ON u.role_id=r.id WHERE r.role_name='clinician'").get().c,\line  17      total_admins: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM users u JOIN roles r ON u.role_id=r.id WHERE r.role_name='admin'").get().c,\line  18      total_records: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM medical_records").get().c,\line  19      total_appointments: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM appointments").get().c,\line  20      upcoming_appointments: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM appointments WHERE status='scheduled'").get().c,\line  21      total_denied_access: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM audit_logs WHERE status='DENIED'").get().c,\line  22      recent_logins: db.prepare("SELECT user_email, user_role, timestamp FROM audit_logs WHERE action='LOGIN' ORDER BY timestamp DESC LIMIT 5").all(),\line  23    \};\line  24    res.json(\{ success: true, data: stats \});\line  25  \});\line  26  \line  27  // GET /api/admin/users - List all users\line  28  router.get('/users', (req, res) => \{\line  29    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_USERS', 'GRANTED');\line  30    const users = db.prepare(`\line  31      SELECT u.id, u.name, u.email, r.role_name as role, u.is_active, u.created_at, u.last_login\line  32      FROM users u JOIN roles r ON u.role_id = r.id\line  33      ORDER BY u.created_at DESC\line  34    `).all();\line  35    res.json(\{ success: true, data: users \});\line  36  \});\line  37  \line  38  // POST /api/admin/users - Create user\line  39  router.post('/users', (req, res) => \{\line  40    const \{ name, email, password, role \} = req.body;\line  41    if (!name || !email || !password || !role) \{\line  42      return res.status(400).json(\{ success: false, message: 'All fields required.' \});\line  43    \}\line  44  \line  45    const roleRow = db.prepare('SELECT id FROM roles WHERE role_name = ?').get(role);\line  46    if (!roleRow) return res.status(400).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Invalid role.' \});\line  47  \line  48    const existing = db.prepare('SELECT id FROM users WHERE email = ?').get(email.toLowerCase());\line  49    if (existing) return res.status(409).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Email already exists.' \});\line  50  \line  51    const hash = bcrypt.hashSync(password, 10);\line  52    const result = db.prepare('INSERT INTO users (name, email, password_hash, role_id) VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?)').run(name, email.toLowerCase(), hash, roleRow.id);\line  53  \line  54    if (role === 'patient') \{\line  55      db.prepare('INSERT INTO patients (user_id) VALUES (?)').run(result.lastInsertRowid);\line  56    \}\line  57  \line  58    logAudit(req, req.user, 'CREATE_USER', 'GRANTED', `Created user: $\{email\} ($\{role\})`);\line  59    res.status(201).json(\{ success: true, message: 'User created successfully.', userId: result.lastInsertRowid \});\line  60  \});\line  61  \line  62  // PUT /api/admin/users/:id - Update user\line  63  router.put('/users/:id', (req, res) => \{\line  64    const \{ name, email, role, is_active \} = req.body;\line  65    const userId = req.params.id;\line  66  \line  67    const user = db.prepare('SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?').get(userId);\line  68    if (!user) return res.status(404).json(\{ success: false, message: 'User not found.' \});\line  69  \line  70    let roleId = user.role_id;\line  71    if (role) \{\line  72      const roleRow = db.prepare('SELECT id FROM roles WHERE role_name = ?').get(role);\line  73      if (!roleRow) return res.status(400).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Invalid role.' \});\line  74      roleId = roleRow.id;\line  75    \}\line  76  \line  77    db.prepare('UPDATE users SET name=?, email=?, role_id=?, is_active=? WHERE id=?').run(\line  78      name || user.name,\line  79      email || user.email,\line  80      roleId,\line  81      is_active !== undefined ? is_active : user.is_active,\line  82      userId\line  83    );\line  84  \line  85    logAudit(req, req.user, 'UPDATE_USER', 'GRANTED', `Updated user ID: $\{userId\}`);\line  86    res.json(\{ success: true, message: 'User updated successfully.' \});\line  87  \});\line  88  \line  89  // DELETE /api/admin/users/:id - Deactivate user\line  90  router.delete('/users/:id', (req, res) => \{\line  91    const userId = req.params.id;\line  92    if (parseInt(userId) === req.user.id) \{\line  93      return res.status(400).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Cannot deactivate your own account.' \});\line  94    \}\line  95    db.prepare('UPDATE users SET is_active = 0 WHERE id = ?').run(userId);\line  96    logAudit(req, req.user, 'DEACTIVATE_USER', 'GRANTED', `Deactivated user ID: $\{userId\}`);\line  97    res.json(\{ success: true, message: 'User deactivated successfully.' \});\line  98  \});\line  99  \line 100  // GET /api/admin/audit-logs - View audit logs\line 101  router.get('/audit-logs', (req, res) => \{\line 102    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_AUDIT_LOGS', 'GRANTED');\line 103    const page = parseInt(req.query.page) || 1;\line 104    const limit = parseInt(req.query.limit) || 50;\line 105    const offset = (page - 1) * limit;\line 106    const filter = req.query.status || '';\line 107  \line 108    let query = 'SELECT * FROM audit_logs';\line 109    let params = [];\line 110    if (filter) \{ query += ' WHERE status = ?'; params.push(filter.toUpperCase()); \}\line 111    query += ' ORDER BY timestamp DESC LIMIT ? OFFSET ?';\line 112    params.push(limit, offset);\line 113  \line 114    const logs = db.prepare(query).all(...params);\line 115    const total = db.prepare('SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM audit_logs' + (filter ? ' WHERE status=?' : '')).get(...(filter ? [filter.toUpperCase()] : [])).c;\line 116    res.json(\{ success: true, data: logs, total, page, limit \});\line 117  \});\line 118  \line 119  // GET /api/admin/roles - List roles and permissions\line 120  router.get('/roles', (req, res) => \{\line 121    const roles = db.prepare('SELECT * FROM roles').all();\line 122    const result = roles.map(r => \{\line 123      const perms = db.prepare(`\line 124        SELECT p.permission_name, p.description FROM permissions p\line 125        JOIN role_permissions rp ON p.id = rp.permission_id WHERE rp.role_id = ?\line 126      `).all(r.id);\line 127      return \{ ...r, permissions: perms \};\line 128    \});\line 129    res.json(\{ success: true, data: result \});\line 130  \});\line 131  \line 132  // GET /api/admin/all-records - View all patient records\line 133  router.get('/all-records', (req, res) => \{\line 134    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_ALL_RECORDS', 'GRANTED');\line 135    const records = db.prepare(`\line 136      SELECT mr.*, \line 137        p.name as patient_name, p.email as patient_email,\line 138        c.name as clinician_name\line 139      FROM medical_records mr\line 140      JOIN users p ON mr.patient_id = p.id\line 141      JOIN users c ON mr.clinician_id = c.id\line 142      ORDER BY mr.created_at DESC\line 143    `).all();\line 144    res.json(\{ success: true, data: records \});\line 145  \});\line 146  \line 147  module.exports = router;\line 148  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.7: Clinician Routes\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/routes/clinician.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Patient lookup, records management, and appointment handling for clinicians.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file implements the clinical workflow endpoints used by authorised healthcare staff.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is called by the clinician dashboard to retrieve assigned work summaries, browse patients, inspect a full patient file, create and update medical records, schedule appointments, and change appointment status.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Allows clinicians and admins to access the clinician route group.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Returns dashboard metrics such as patient counts, appointments, and recently attended patients.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides detailed patient lookup including profile, records, and appointment history.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Creates new medical records and checks ownership before record updates are allowed.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Schedules appointments and enforces valid appointment status transitions.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  const express = require('express');\line   2  const router = express.Router();\line   3  const \{ db \} = require('../config/database');\line   4  const \{ authenticateToken, requireRole, logAudit \} = require('../middleware/auth');\line   5  \line   6  router.use(authenticateToken, requireRole('clinician', 'admin'));\line   7  \line   8  // GET /api/clinician/dashboard\line   9  router.get('/dashboard', (req, res) => \{\line  10    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_CLINICIAN_DASHBOARD', 'GRANTED');\line  11    const stats = \{\line  12      my_patients: db.prepare(`\line  13        SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT patient_id) as c FROM medical_records WHERE clinician_id = ?\line  14      `).get(req.user.id).c,\line  15      my_appointments: db.prepare(`\line  16        SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM appointments WHERE clinician_id = ? AND status = 'scheduled'\line  17      `).get(req.user.id).c,\line  18      records_created: db.prepare(`\line  19        SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM medical_records WHERE clinician_id = ?\line  20      `).get(req.user.id).c,\line  21      recent_patients: db.prepare(`\line  22        SELECT DISTINCT u.id, u.name, u.email, mr.visit_date, mr.diagnosis\line  23        FROM users u\line  24        JOIN medical_records mr ON mr.patient_id = u.id\line  25        WHERE mr.clinician_id = ?\line  26        ORDER BY mr.created_at DESC LIMIT 5\line  27      `).all(req.user.id),\line  28      upcoming_appointments: db.prepare(`\line  29        SELECT a.*, p.name as patient_name, p.email as patient_email\line  30        FROM appointments a JOIN users p ON a.patient_id = p.id\line  31        WHERE a.clinician_id = ? AND a.status = 'scheduled'\line  32        ORDER BY a.appointment_date, a.appointment_time LIMIT 5\line  33      `).all(req.user.id)\line  34    \};\line  35    res.json(\{ success: true, data: stats \});\line  36  \});\line  37  \line  38  // GET /api/clinician/patients - List all patients\line  39  router.get('/patients', (req, res) => \{\line  40    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_PATIENTS_LIST', 'GRANTED');\line  41    const patients = db.prepare(`\line  42      SELECT u.id, u.name, u.email, u.created_at,\line  43        pt.date_of_birth, pt.gender, pt.blood_group, pt.phone, pt.allergies\line  44      FROM users u\line  45      JOIN roles r ON u.role_id = r.id\line  46      LEFT JOIN patients pt ON pt.user_id = u.id\line  47      WHERE r.role_name = 'patient' AND u.is_active = 1\line  48      ORDER BY u.name\line  49    `).all();\line  50    res.json(\{ success: true, data: patients \});\line  51  \});\line  52  \line  53  // GET /api/clinician/patients/:id - View patient detail\line  54  router.get('/patients/:id', (req, res) => \{\line  55    const patientId = req.params.id;\line  56    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_PATIENT_DETAIL', 'GRANTED', `Patient ID: $\{patientId\}`);\line  57  \line  58    const patient = db.prepare(`\line  59      SELECT u.id, u.name, u.email, u.created_at,\line  60        pt.date_of_birth, pt.gender, pt.blood_group, pt.phone, pt.address,\line  61        pt.emergency_contact, pt.emergency_phone, pt.insurance_number, pt.allergies\line  62      FROM users u\line  63      JOIN roles r ON u.role_id = r.id\line  64      LEFT JOIN patients pt ON pt.user_id = u.id\line  65      WHERE u.id = ? AND r.role_name = 'patient'\line  66    `).get(patientId);\line  67  \line  68    if (!patient) return res.status(404).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Patient not found.' \});\line  69  \line  70    const records = db.prepare(`\line  71      SELECT mr.*, c.name as clinician_name\line  72      FROM medical_records mr\line  73      JOIN users c ON mr.clinician_id = c.id\line  74      WHERE mr.patient_id = ?\line  75      ORDER BY mr.visit_date DESC\line  76    `).all(patientId);\line  77  \line  78    const appointments = db.prepare(`\line  79      SELECT a.*, c.name as clinician_name\line  80      FROM appointments a\line  81      JOIN users c ON a.clinician_id = c.id\line  82      WHERE a.patient_id = ?\line  83      ORDER BY a.appointment_date DESC\line  84    `).all(patientId);\line  85  \line  86    res.json(\{ success: true, data: \{ patient, records, appointments \} \});\line  87  \});\line  88  \line  89  // GET /api/clinician/records - Get all records created by this clinician\line  90  router.get('/records', (req, res) => \{\line  91    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_OWN_RECORDS_LIST', 'GRANTED');\line  92    const records = db.prepare(`\line  93      SELECT mr.*, p.name as patient_name, p.email as patient_email\line  94      FROM medical_records mr\line  95      JOIN users p ON mr.patient_id = p.id\line  96      WHERE mr.clinician_id = ?\line  97      ORDER BY mr.created_at DESC\line  98    `).all(req.user.id);\line  99    res.json(\{ success: true, data: records \});\line 100  \});\line 101  \line 102  // POST /api/clinician/records - Create medical record\line 103  router.post('/records', (req, res) => \{\line 104    const \{ patient_id, visit_date, chief_complaint, diagnosis, medications, treatment_plan, notes, vital_signs, lab_results \} = req.body;\line 105  \line 106    if (!patient_id || !visit_date || !diagnosis) \{\line 107      return res.status(400).json(\{ success: false, message: 'patient_id, visit_date and diagnosis are required.' \});\line 108    \}\line 109  \line 110    // Verify patient exists\line 111    const patient = db.prepare("SELECT u.id FROM users u JOIN roles r ON u.role_id=r.id WHERE u.id=? AND r.role_name='patient'").get(patient_id);\line 112    if (!patient) return res.status(404).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Patient not found.' \});\line 113  \line 114    const result = db.prepare(`\line 115      INSERT INTO medical_records (patient_id, clinician_id, visit_date, chief_complaint, diagnosis, medications, treatment_plan, notes, vital_signs, lab_results)\line 116      VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)\line 117    `).run(patient_id, req.user.id, visit_date, chief_complaint, diagnosis, medications, treatment_plan, notes, vital_signs, lab_results);\line 118  \line 119    logAudit(req, req.user, 'CREATE_MEDICAL_RECORD', 'GRANTED', `Record ID: $\{result.lastInsertRowid\} for Patient: $\{patient_id\}`);\line 120    res.status(201).json(\{ success: true, message: 'Medical record created.', recordId: result.lastInsertRowid \});\line 121  \});\line 122  \line 123  // PUT /api/clinician/records/:id - Update medical record\line 124  router.put('/records/:id', (req, res) => \{\line 125    const recordId = req.params.id;\line 126    const record = db.prepare('SELECT * FROM medical_records WHERE id = ?').get(recordId);\line 127    if (!record) return res.status(404).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Record not found.' \});\line 128    if (record.clinician_id !== req.user.id && req.user.role !== 'admin') \{\line 129      logAudit(req, req.user, 'UPDATE_RECORD_DENIED', 'DENIED', `Record $\{recordId\} belongs to another clinician`);\line 130      return res.status(403).json(\{ success: false, message: 'You can only update your own records.' \});\line 131    \}\line 132  \line 133    const \{ chief_complaint, diagnosis, medications, treatment_plan, notes, vital_signs, lab_results \} = req.body;\line 134    db.prepare(`\line 135      UPDATE medical_records SET chief_complaint=?, diagnosis=?, medications=?, treatment_plan=?, notes=?, vital_signs=?, lab_results=?, updated_at=CURRENT_TIMESTAMP WHERE id=?\line 136    `).run(chief_complaint || record.chief_complaint, diagnosis || record.diagnosis, medications || record.medications,\line 137       treatment_plan || record.treatment_plan, notes || record.notes, vital_signs || record.vital_signs, lab_results || record.lab_results, recordId);\line 138  \line 139    logAudit(req, req.user, 'UPDATE_MEDICAL_RECORD', 'GRANTED', `Record ID: $\{recordId\}`);\line 140    res.json(\{ success: true, message: 'Record updated successfully.' \});\line 141  \});\line 142  \line 143  // GET /api/clinician/appointments\line 144  router.get('/appointments', (req, res) => \{\line 145    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_APPOINTMENTS', 'GRANTED');\line 146    const appointments = db.prepare(`\line 147      SELECT a.*, p.name as patient_name, p.email as patient_email\line 148      FROM appointments a\line 149      JOIN users p ON a.patient_id = p.id\line 150      WHERE a.clinician_id = ?\line 151      ORDER BY a.appointment_date DESC\line 152    `).all(req.user.id);\line 153    res.json(\{ success: true, data: appointments \});\line 154  \});\line 155  \line 156  // POST /api/clinician/appointments - Create appointment\line 157  router.post('/appointments', (req, res) => \{\line 158    const \{ patient_id, appointment_date, appointment_time, reason, notes \} = req.body;\line 159    if (!patient_id || !appointment_date || !appointment_time) \{\line 160      return res.status(400).json(\{ success: false, message: 'patient_id, date and time required.' \});\line 161    \}\line 162  \line 163    const result = db.prepare(`\line 164      INSERT INTO appointments (patient_id, clinician_id, appointment_date, appointment_time, reason, notes)\line 165      VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)\line 166    `).run(patient_id, req.user.id, appointment_date, appointment_time, reason, notes);\line 167  \line 168    logAudit(req, req.user, 'CREATE_APPOINTMENT', 'GRANTED', `Appointment for Patient: $\{patient_id\} on $\{appointment_date\}`);\line 169    res.status(201).json(\{ success: true, message: 'Appointment scheduled.', appointmentId: result.lastInsertRowid \});\line 170  \});\line 171  \line 172  // PUT /api/clinician/appointments/:id/status\line 173  router.put('/appointments/:id/status', (req, res) => \{\line 174    const \{ status \} = req.body;\line 175    if (!['scheduled', 'completed', 'cancelled'].includes(status)) \{\line 176      return res.status(400).json(\{ success: false, message: 'Invalid status.' \});\line 177    \}\line 178    db.prepare('UPDATE appointments SET status = ? WHERE id = ? AND clinician_id = ?').run(status, req.params.id, req.user.id);\line 179    logAudit(req, req.user, 'UPDATE_APPOINTMENT_STATUS', 'GRANTED', `Appointment $\{req.params.id\} -> $\{status\}`);\line 180    res.json(\{ success: true, message: 'Appointment status updated.' \});\line 181  \});\line 182  \line 183  module.exports = router;\line 184  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.8: Patient Routes\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/routes/patient.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Patient profile, appointments, records, and summary endpoints.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file provides the self-service backend interface through which patients can safely access only their own data.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is consumed by the patient dashboard to load the current user profile, personal medical records, personal appointments, and a summary view containing recent visits, upcoming appointments, and active medications.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Restricts the whole route group to authenticated users with the patient role.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Returns only the current patient\u\u\us profile and associated health data.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Prevents cross-patient data exposure by always querying with req.user.id.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Aggregates summary metrics used on the patient home page.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  const express = require('express');\line   2  const router = express.Router();\line   3  const \{ db \} = require('../config/database');\line   4  const \{ authenticateToken, requireRole, logAudit \} = require('../middleware/auth');\line   5  \line   6  router.use(authenticateToken, requireRole('patient'));\line   7  \line   8  // GET /api/patient/profile - View own profile\line   9  router.get('/profile', (req, res) => \{\line  10    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_OWN_PROFILE', 'GRANTED');\line  11    const profile = db.prepare(`\line  12      SELECT u.id, u.name, u.email, u.created_at, u.last_login,\line  13        pt.date_of_birth, pt.gender, pt.blood_group, pt.phone, pt.address,\line  14        pt.emergency_contact, pt.emergency_phone, pt.insurance_number, pt.allergies\line  15      FROM users u\line  16      LEFT JOIN patients pt ON pt.user_id = u.id\line  17      WHERE u.id = ?\line  18    `).get(req.user.id);\line  19  \line  20    res.json(\{ success: true, data: profile \});\line  21  \});\line  22  \line  23  // GET /api/patient/records - View own medical records\line  24  router.get('/records', (req, res) => \{\line  25    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_OWN_RECORDS', 'GRANTED');\line  26    const records = db.prepare(`\line  27      SELECT mr.id, mr.visit_date, mr.chief_complaint, mr.diagnosis,\line  28        mr.medications, mr.treatment_plan, mr.notes, mr.vital_signs, mr.lab_results,\line  29        mr.created_at, mr.updated_at,\line  30        c.name as clinician_name\line  31      FROM medical_records mr\line  32      JOIN users c ON mr.clinician_id = c.id\line  33      WHERE mr.patient_id = ?\line  34      ORDER BY mr.visit_date DESC\line  35    `).all(req.user.id);\line  36    res.json(\{ success: true, data: records \});\line  37  \});\line  38  \line  39  // GET /api/patient/appointments - View own appointments\line  40  router.get('/appointments', (req, res) => \{\line  41    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_OWN_APPOINTMENTS', 'GRANTED');\line  42    const appointments = db.prepare(`\line  43      SELECT a.id, a.appointment_date, a.appointment_time, a.reason, a.status, a.notes, a.created_at,\line  44        c.name as clinician_name, c.email as clinician_email\line  45      FROM appointments a\line  46      JOIN users c ON a.clinician_id = c.id\line  47      WHERE a.patient_id = ?\line  48      ORDER BY a.appointment_date DESC\line  49    `).all(req.user.id);\line  50    res.json(\{ success: true, data: appointments \});\line  51  \});\line  52  \line  53  // GET /api/patient/summary - Quick health summary\line  54  router.get('/summary', (req, res) => \{\line  55    logAudit(req, req.user, 'VIEW_HEALTH_SUMMARY', 'GRANTED');\line  56    const summary = \{\line  57      total_visits: db.prepare('SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM medical_records WHERE patient_id = ?').get(req.user.id).c,\line  58      upcoming_appointments: db.prepare("SELECT COUNT(*) as c FROM appointments WHERE patient_id = ? AND status = 'scheduled'").get(req.user.id).c,\line  59      last_visit: db.prepare("SELECT visit_date, diagnosis FROM medical_records WHERE patient_id = ? ORDER BY visit_date DESC LIMIT 1").get(req.user.id),\line  60      next_appointment: db.prepare(`\line  61        SELECT a.appointment_date, a.appointment_time, a.reason, u.name as clinician_name\line  62        FROM appointments a JOIN users u ON a.clinician_id = u.id\line  63        WHERE a.patient_id = ? AND a.status = 'scheduled' ORDER BY a.appointment_date, a.appointment_time LIMIT 1\line  64      `).get(req.user.id),\line  65      active_medications: db.prepare(`\line  66        SELECT medications FROM medical_records WHERE patient_id = ? AND medications IS NOT NULL ORDER BY visit_date DESC LIMIT 1\line  67      `).get(req.user.id),\line  68    \};\line  69    res.json(\{ success: true, data: summary \});\line  70  \});\line  71  \line  72  module.exports = router;\line  73  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix A.9: Backend Package Configuration\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: backend/package.json\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Node.js package metadata and backend runtime dependencies.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file defines the backend package metadata, startup scripts, and external libraries required to run the application.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is used by npm during installation and execution of the backend. It documents the packages needed for routing, database access, password hashing, JWT handling, logging, and environment configuration.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Declares the backend entry point and package identity.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Defines runtime scripts for starting and developing the Node.js server.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Lists the core dependencies that support the RBAC EHR implementation.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  \{\line   2    "name": "ehr-system-backend",\line   3    "version": "1.0.0",\line   4    "description": "Secure Cloud-Based EHR System with RBAC",\line   5    "main": "server.js",\line   6    "scripts": \{\line   7      "start": "node server.js",\line   8      "dev": "nodemon server.js",\line   9      "seed": "node seed.js"\line  10    \},\line  11    "dependencies": \{\line  12      "bcryptjs": "^2.4.3",\line  13      "better-sqlite3": "^9.4.3",\line  14      "cors": "^2.8.5",\line  15      "dotenv": "^16.4.5",\line  16      "express": "^4.18.3",\line  17      "jsonwebtoken": "^9.0.2",\line  18      "morgan": "^1.10.0",\line  19      "uuid": "^9.0.1"\line  20    \}\line  21  \}\line  22  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs30\sa240 Appendix B: Frontend Source Code\par
\pard\f0\fs21\sa140 This section contains the full frontend source code listings for the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript user interfaces.\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix B.1: System Login Page\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: frontend/index.html\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Initial authentication interface for all user roles.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file defines the main entry page that users see before accessing the system.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is served as the default frontend page. Users enter their email and password here, the page sends the credentials to /api/auth/login, stores the returned JWT and user object in localStorage, and redirects each user to the correct role-specific dashboard.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Contains the login form used by all user categories.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides demo-account shortcuts for evaluation and demonstration.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Redirects already authenticated users directly to the dashboard that matches their role.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Displays authentication feedback when login succeeds or fails.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  <!DOCTYPE html>\line   2  <html lang="en">\line   3  <head>\line   4    <meta charset="UTF-8">\line   5    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">\line   6    <title>EHR System \u\u\u Login | Secure Cloud-Based EHR with RBAC</title>\line   7    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/css/style.css">\line   8    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Inter:wght@400;500;600;700;800&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">\line   9  </head>\line  10  <body class="login-page">\line  11  \line  12    <div class="login-container">\line  13      <div class="login-header">\line  14        <div class="logo-icon">\u\u\u\u</div>\line  15        <h1>SecureEHR System</h1>\line  16        <p>Secure Cloud-Based Electronic Health Records</p>\line  17        <p style="font-size:11px; opacity:0.7; margin-top:4px;">Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)</p>\line  18      </div>\line  19  \line  20      <div class="login-body">\line  21        <div id="login-alert" style="display:none;"></div>\line  22  \line  23        <form id="login-form">\line  24          <div class="form-group">\line  25            <label>Email Address</label>\line  26            <input type="email" id="email" placeholder="Enter your email" required autocomplete="username">\line  27          </div>\line  28          <div class="form-group">\line  29            <label>Password</label>\line  30            <input type="password" id="password" placeholder="Enter your password" required autocomplete="current-password">\line  31          </div>\line  32          <button type="submit" class="btn btn-primary btn-full" id="login-btn">\line  33            Sign In to EHR System\line  34          </button>\line  35        </form>\line  36  \line  37        <div class="demo-accounts">\line  38          <h4>Demo Accounts (Password: Password123!)</h4>\line  39          <div class="demo-account" onclick="fillDemo('admin@ehrsystem.com')">\line  40            <span class="role-badge badge badge-admin">Admin</span>\line  41            <span class="email">admin@ehrsystem.com</span>\line  42            <span style="font-size:11px; color:#9ca3af;">Click to fill</span>\line  43          </div>\line  44          <div class="demo-account" onclick="fillDemo('amina.okafor@ehrsystem.com')">\line  45            <span class="role-badge badge badge-clinician">Clinician</span>\line  46            <span class="email">amina.okafor@ehrsystem.com</span>\line  47            <span style="font-size:11px; color:#9ca3af;">Click to fill</span>\line  48          </div>\line  49          <div class="demo-account" onclick="fillDemo('james.adeyemi@ehrsystem.com')">\line  50            <span class="role-badge badge badge-clinician">Clinician</span>\line  51            <span class="email">james.adeyemi@ehrsystem.com</span>\line  52            <span style="font-size:11px; color:#9ca3af;">Click to fill</span>\line  53          </div>\line  54          <div class="demo-account" onclick="fillDemo('emeka.chukwu@gmail.com')">\line  55            <span class="role-badge badge badge-patient">Patient</span>\line  56            <span class="email">emeka.chukwu@gmail.com</span>\line  57            <span style="font-size:11px; color:#9ca3af;">Click to fill</span>\line  58          </div>\line  59          <div class="demo-account" onclick="fillDemo('ngozi.obi@gmail.com')">\line  60            <span class="role-badge badge badge-patient">Patient</span>\line  61            <span class="email">ngozi.obi@gmail.com</span>\line  62            <span style="font-size:11px; color:#9ca3af;">Click to fill</span>\line  63          </div>\line  64        </div>\line  65  \line  66        <p style="text-align:center; font-size:11px; color:var(--gray-500); margin-top:16px;">\line  67          University of the West of Scotland \u\u MSc Computer Science<br>\line  68          Design and Implementation of Secure Cloud-Based EHR with RBAC\line  69        </p>\line  70      </div>\line  71    </div>\line  72  \line  73  <script src="/assets/js/app.js"></script>\line  74  <script>\line  75    // Redirect if already logged in\line  76    if (isLoggedIn()) \{\line  77      const role = getUser().role;\line  78      window.location.href = `/pages/$\{role\}/dashboard.html`;\line  79    \}\line  80  \line  81    function fillDemo(email) \{\line  82      document.getElementById('email').value = email;\line  83      document.getElementById('password').value = 'Password123!';\line  84    \}\line  85  \line  86    document.getElementById('login-form').addEventListener('submit', async (e) => \{\line  87      e.preventDefault();\line  88      const btn = document.getElementById('login-btn');\line  89      const alertDiv = document.getElementById('login-alert');\line  90  \line  91      btn.disabled = true;\line  92      btn.innerHTML = '<span class="loading-spinner"></span> Authenticating...';\line  93      alertDiv.style.display = 'none';\line  94  \line  95      const email = document.getElementById('email').value.trim();\line  96      const password = document.getElementById('password').value;\line  97  \line  98      const result = await api.post('/auth/login', \{ email, password \});\line  99  \line 100      if (result && result.ok) \{\line 101        localStorage.setItem('ehr_token', result.data.token);\line 102        localStorage.setItem('ehr_user', JSON.stringify(result.data.user));\line 103        showToast(`Welcome, $\{result.data.user.name\}!`, 'success');\line 104        setTimeout(() => \{\line 105          window.location.href = `/pages/$\{result.data.user.role\}/dashboard.html`;\line 106        \}, 500);\line 107      \} else \{\line 108        const msg = result?.data?.message || 'Login failed. Please check your credentials.';\line 109        alertDiv.className = 'alert alert-error';\line 110        alertDiv.innerHTML = `\u\u\u\u $\{msg\}`;\line 111        alertDiv.style.display = 'flex';\line 112        btn.disabled = false;\line 113        btn.innerHTML = 'Sign In to EHR System';\line 114      \}\line 115    \});\line 116  </script>\line 117  </body>\line 118  </html>\line 119  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix B.2: Access Denied Page\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: frontend/access-denied.html\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Frontend error page shown for unauthorized access attempts.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file presents a user-friendly explanation when an authenticated user tries to open a page outside their authorised role.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is reached when the frontend role guard detects that a user does not have permission to enter a protected page. It supports the RBAC usability layer by explaining the restriction and offering navigation back to an allowed location.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Explains that RBAC prevented the requested action.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Shows the current role when user session data is available.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides buttons to go back, return to the dashboard, or log out.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  <!DOCTYPE html>\line   2  <html lang="en">\line   3  <head>\line   4    <meta charset="UTF-8">\line   5    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">\line   6    <title>Access Denied \u\u\u EHR System</title>\line   7    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/css/style.css">\line   8  </head>\line   9  <body>\line  10    <div class="access-denied-page">\line  11      <div class="icon">\u\u\u\u</div>\line  12      <h1>Access Denied</h1>\line  13      <p>You do not have the required permissions to access this resource. This access attempt has been logged.</p>\line  14      <br>\line  15      <div style="display:flex; gap:12px; justify-content:center; flex-wrap:wrap; margin-top:16px;">\line  16        <button class="btn btn-primary" onclick="history.back()">\u\u\u Go Back</button>\line  17        <button class="btn btn-secondary" onclick="goToDashboard()">My Dashboard</button>\line  18        <button class="btn btn-outline" onclick="logout()">Logout</button>\line  19      </div>\line  20      <div class="card" style="margin-top:28px; max-width:380px; text-align:left;">\line  21        <div class="card-header"><h3>Why was I denied?</h3></div>\line  22        <div style="font-size:13px; color:var(--gray-700);">\line  23          <p>The EHR system uses <strong>Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)</strong> to ensure each user can only access data and functions appropriate to their role.</p>\line  24          <br>\line  25          <p id="user-info">Please contact your administrator if you believe this is an error.</p>\line  26        </div>\line  27      </div>\line  28    </div>\line  29  \line  30  <script src="/assets/js/app.js"></script>\line  31  <script>\line  32    const user = getUser();\line  33    if (user) \{\line  34      document.getElementById('user-info').innerHTML = `Your current role is <strong>$\{user.role\}</strong>. If you need access to additional resources, contact your system administrator.`;\line  35    \}\line  36    function goToDashboard() \{\line  37      if (!user) \{ window.location.href = '/'; return; \}\line  38      window.location.href = `/pages/$\{user.role\}/dashboard.html`;\line  39    \}\line  40  </script>\line  41  </body>\line  42  </html>\line  43  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix B.3: Global Stylesheet\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: frontend/assets/css/style.css\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Shared user interface styling for all frontend pages.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file defines the shared visual presentation of the entire frontend application.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is imported by the login page, access-denied page, and all dashboards. It ensures consistent typography, colours, spacing, cards, tables, forms, badges, modals, alerts, responsive behaviour, and role-based visual cues throughout the system.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Defines reusable CSS variables for colour, spacing, and shadows.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Styles the login layout, dashboard shell, forms, cards, tables, badges, and modals.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides responsive behaviour so the pages remain usable on smaller screens.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Applies role-specific accent styling for admin, clinician, and patient views.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  /* ============================================\line   2     EHR RBAC System - Global Stylesheet\line   3     University of the West of Scotland\line   4     ============================================ */\line   5  \line   6  :root \{\line   7    --primary: #1a56db;\line   8    --primary-dark: #1341b8;\line   9    --primary-light: #e8f0fd;\line  10    --secondary: #0e9f6e;\line  11    --secondary-light: #d5f0ea;\line  12    --danger: #e02424;\line  13    --danger-light: #fde8e8;\line  14    --warning: #d97706;\line  15    --warning-light: #fef3c7;\line  16    --dark: #111827;\line  17    --gray-900: #1f2937;\line  18    --gray-800: #374151;\line  19    --gray-700: #4b5563;\line  20    --gray-600: #6b7280;\line  21    --gray-500: #9ca3af;\line  22    --gray-400: #d1d5db;\line  23    --gray-200: #e5e7eb;\line  24    --gray-100: #f3f4f6;\line  25    --gray-50: #f9fafb;\line  26    --white: #ffffff;\line  27    --sidebar-width: 260px;\line  28    --topbar-height: 64px;\line  29    --border-radius: 8px;\line  30    --shadow-sm: 0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.1), 0 1px 2px rgba(0,0,0,0.06);\line  31    --shadow-md: 0 4px 6px rgba(0,0,0,0.07), 0 2px 4px rgba(0,0,0,0.06);\line  32    --shadow-lg: 0 10px 15px rgba(0,0,0,0.1), 0 4px 6px rgba(0,0,0,0.05);\line  33  \}\line  34  \line  35  * \{ box-sizing: border-box; margin: 0; padding: 0; \}\line  36  \line  37  body \{\line  38    font-family: 'Inter', -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, 'Segoe UI', sans-serif;\line  39    background: var(--gray-50);\line  40    color: var(--gray-900);\line  41    line-height: 1.6;\line  42    font-size: 14px;\line  43  \}\line  44  \line  45  a \{ text-decoration: none; color: inherit; \}\line  46  \line  47  /* ============ LOGIN PAGE ============ */\line  48  .login-page \{\line  49    min-height: 100vh;\line  50    background: linear-gradient(135deg, #1a56db 0%, #0e9f6e 100%);\line  51    display: flex;\line  52    align-items: center;\line  53    justify-content: center;\line  54    padding: 20px;\line  55  \}\line  56  \line  57  .login-container \{\line  58    background: var(--white);\line  59    border-radius: 16px;\line  60    box-shadow: var(--shadow-lg);\line  61    width: 100%;\line  62    max-width: 440px;\line  63    overflow: hidden;\line  64  \}\line  65  \line  66  .login-header \{\line  67    background: linear-gradient(135deg, #1a56db, #0e9f6e);\line  68    padding: 32px 40px;\line  69    text-align: center;\line  70    color: white;\line  71  \}\line  72  \line  73  .login-header .logo-icon \{\line  74    width: 60px; height: 60px;\line  75    background: rgba(255,255,255,0.2);\line  76    border-radius: 50%;\line  77    display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center;\line  78    margin: 0 auto 16px;\line  79    font-size: 28px;\line  80  \}\line  81  \line  82  .login-header h1 \{ font-size: 22px; font-weight: 700; margin-bottom: 4px; \}\line  83  .login-header p \{ font-size: 13px; opacity: 0.85; \}\line  84  \line  85  .login-body \{ padding: 36px 40px; \}\line  86  \line  87  .form-group \{ margin-bottom: 20px; \}\line  88  .form-group label \{ display: block; font-weight: 600; font-size: 13px; color: var(--gray-700); margin-bottom: 6px; \}\line  89  .form-group input, .form-group select, .form-group textarea \{\line  90    width: 100%; padding: 10px 14px;\line  91    border: 1.5px solid var(--gray-400);\line  92    border-radius: var(--border-radius);\line  93    font-size: 14px; color: var(--gray-900);\line  94    background: var(--white);\line  95    transition: border-color 0.2s, box-shadow 0.2s;\line  96    outline: none;\line  97  \}\line  98  .form-group input:focus, .form-group select:focus, .form-group textarea:focus \{\line  99    border-color: var(--primary); box-shadow: 0 0 0 3px rgba(26,86,219,0.1);\line 100  \}\line 101  \line 102  .btn \{\line 103    display: inline-flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; gap: 8px;\line 104    padding: 10px 18px; border: none; border-radius: var(--border-radius);\line 105    font-size: 14px; font-weight: 600; cursor: pointer;\line 106    transition: all 0.2s; white-space: nowrap;\line 107  \}\line 108  .btn-primary \{ background: var(--primary); color: white; \}\line 109  .btn-primary:hover \{ background: var(--primary-dark); transform: translateY(-1px); box-shadow: var(--shadow-md); \}\line 110  .btn-success \{ background: var(--secondary); color: white; \}\line 111  .btn-success:hover \{ background: #0b7a55; \}\line 112  .btn-danger \{ background: var(--danger); color: white; \}\line 113  .btn-danger:hover \{ background: #b91c1c; \}\line 114  .btn-secondary \{ background: var(--gray-200); color: var(--gray-800); \}\line 115  .btn-secondary:hover \{ background: var(--gray-400); \}\line 116  .btn-outline \{ background: transparent; border: 1.5px solid var(--primary); color: var(--primary); \}\line 117  .btn-outline:hover \{ background: var(--primary-light); \}\line 118  .btn-sm \{ padding: 6px 12px; font-size: 12px; \}\line 119  .btn-full \{ width: 100%; \}\line 120  .btn:disabled \{ opacity: 0.6; cursor: not-allowed; transform: none; \}\line 121  \line 122  .demo-accounts \{\line 123    margin-top: 20px; background: var(--gray-50); border-radius: var(--border-radius);\line 124    padding: 16px; border: 1px solid var(--gray-200);\line 125  \}\line 126  .demo-accounts h4 \{ font-size: 12px; color: var(--gray-600); font-weight: 600; margin-bottom: 10px; text-transform: uppercase; letter-spacing: 0.5px; \}\line 127  .demo-account \{\line 128    display: flex; justify-content: space-between; align-items: center;\line 129    padding: 8px 10px; border-radius: 6px; cursor: pointer;\line 130    transition: background 0.15s; margin-bottom: 4px;\line 131  \}\line 132  .demo-account:hover \{ background: var(--primary-light); \}\line 133  .demo-account .role-badge \{ font-size: 11px; font-weight: 600; \}\line 134  .demo-account .email \{ font-size: 12px; color: var(--gray-600); \}\line 135  \line 136  /* ============ DASHBOARD LAYOUT ============ */\line 137  .dashboard-layout \{\line 138    display: flex; min-height: 100vh;\line 139  \}\line 140  \line 141  /* SIDEBAR */\line 142  .sidebar \{\line 143    width: var(--sidebar-width); min-height: 100vh;\line 144    background: var(--gray-900);\line 145    display: flex; flex-direction: column;\line 146    position: fixed; top: 0; left: 0; bottom: 0; z-index: 100;\line 147    transition: transform 0.3s;\line 148  \}\line 149  \line 150  .sidebar-header \{\line 151    padding: 20px 24px; border-bottom: 1px solid rgba(255,255,255,0.08);\line 152  \}\line 153  .sidebar-logo \{\line 154    display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 12px; color: white;\line 155  \}\line 156  .sidebar-logo .logo-icon \{\line 157    width: 36px; height: 36px; background: var(--primary);\line 158    border-radius: 8px; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center;\line 159    font-size: 18px; flex-shrink: 0;\line 160  \}\line 161  .sidebar-logo-text h2 \{ font-size: 15px; font-weight: 700; color: white; \}\line 162  .sidebar-logo-text p \{ font-size: 11px; color: rgba(255,255,255,0.5); \}\line 163  \line 164  .sidebar-user \{\line 165    padding: 16px 24px; border-bottom: 1px solid rgba(255,255,255,0.08);\line 166    display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 12px;\line 167  \}\line 168  .user-avatar \{\line 169    width: 38px; height: 38px; border-radius: 50%;\line 170    display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center;\line 171    font-weight: 700; font-size: 14px; color: white; flex-shrink: 0;\line 172  \}\line 173  .sidebar-user-info .name \{ font-size: 13px; font-weight: 600; color: white; \}\line 174  .sidebar-user-info .role \{ font-size: 11px; color: rgba(255,255,255,0.5); \}\line 175  \line 176  .sidebar-nav \{ flex: 1; padding: 16px 12px; overflow-y: auto; \}\line 177  .nav-section-title \{\line 178    font-size: 10px; font-weight: 700; text-transform: uppercase; letter-spacing: 1px;\line 179    color: rgba(255,255,255,0.35); padding: 0 12px; margin: 16px 0 6px;\line 180  \}\line 181  .nav-item \{\line 182    display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 10px;\line 183    padding: 10px 12px; border-radius: 8px; color: rgba(255,255,255,0.65);\line 184    cursor: pointer; transition: all 0.15s; margin-bottom: 2px; font-size: 13px; font-weight: 500;\line 185  \}\line 186  .nav-item:hover \{ background: rgba(255,255,255,0.08); color: white; \}\line 187  .nav-item.active \{ background: var(--primary); color: white; \}\line 188  .nav-item .icon \{ font-size: 16px; width: 20px; text-align: center; flex-shrink: 0; \}\line 189  \line 190  .sidebar-footer \{\line 191    padding: 16px 12px; border-top: 1px solid rgba(255,255,255,0.08);\line 192  \}\line 193  .logout-btn \{\line 194    display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 10px;\line 195    padding: 10px 12px; border-radius: 8px; color: rgba(255,255,255,0.65);\line 196    cursor: pointer; transition: all 0.15s; font-size: 13px; font-weight: 500; width: 100%;\line 197    background: none; border: none;\line 198  \}\line 199  .logout-btn:hover \{ background: rgba(224,36,36,0.15); color: #fc8181; \}\line 200  \line 201  /* MAIN CONTENT */\line 202  .main-content \{\line 203    margin-left: var(--sidebar-width); flex: 1; display: flex; flex-direction: column; min-height: 100vh;\line 204  \}\line 205  \line 206  .topbar \{\line 207    height: var(--topbar-height); background: white; border-bottom: 1px solid var(--gray-200);\line 208    display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: space-between;\line 209    padding: 0 28px; position: sticky; top: 0; z-index: 50;\line 210    box-shadow: var(--shadow-sm);\line 211  \}\line 212  .topbar-title h1 \{ font-size: 18px; font-weight: 700; color: var(--gray-900); \}\line 213  .topbar-title p \{ font-size: 12px; color: var(--gray-500); \}\line 214  \line 215  .page-content \{ padding: 28px; flex: 1; \}\line 216  \line 217  /* ============ CARDS & STATS ============ */\line 218  .stats-grid \{\line 219    display: grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(200px, 1fr)); gap: 16px; margin-bottom: 28px;\line 220  \}\line 221  .stat-card \{\line 222    background: white; border-radius: 12px; padding: 20px 22px;\line 223    box-shadow: var(--shadow-sm); border: 1px solid var(--gray-200);\line 224    display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 16px;\line 225  \}\line 226  .stat-icon \{\line 227    width: 48px; height: 48px; border-radius: 10px;\line 228    display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center;\line 229    font-size: 22px; flex-shrink: 0;\line 230  \}\line 231  .stat-icon.blue \{ background: var(--primary-light); \}\line 232  .stat-icon.green \{ background: var(--secondary-light); \}\line 233  .stat-icon.red \{ background: var(--danger-light); \}\line 234  .stat-icon.yellow \{ background: var(--warning-light); \}\line 235  .stat-info .value \{ font-size: 26px; font-weight: 800; color: var(--gray-900); line-height: 1.1; \}\line 236  .stat-info .label \{ font-size: 12px; color: var(--gray-500); font-weight: 500; margin-top: 2px; \}\line 237  \line 238  .card \{\line 239    background: white; border-radius: 12px; padding: 22px 24px;\line 240    box-shadow: var(--shadow-sm); border: 1px solid var(--gray-200); margin-bottom: 20px;\line 241  \}\line 242  .card-header \{\line 243    display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: space-between;\line 244    margin-bottom: 18px; padding-bottom: 14px; border-bottom: 1px solid var(--gray-100);\line 245  \}\line 246  .card-header h3 \{ font-size: 15px; font-weight: 700; color: var(--gray-900); \}\line 247  .card-header p \{ font-size: 12px; color: var(--gray-500); margin-top: 2px; \}\line 248  \line 249  /* ============ TABLE ============ */\line 250  .table-container \{ overflow-x: auto; border-radius: 8px; border: 1px solid var(--gray-200); \}\line 251  table \{ width: 100%; border-collapse: collapse; background: white; \}\line 252  thead \{ background: var(--gray-50); \}\line 253  th \{ padding: 12px 16px; text-align: left; font-size: 12px; font-weight: 700;\line 254       text-transform: uppercase; letter-spacing: 0.5px; color: var(--gray-600); border-bottom: 1px solid var(--gray-200); \}\line 255  td \{ padding: 12px 16px; font-size: 13px; color: var(--gray-800); border-bottom: 1px solid var(--gray-100); vertical-align: middle; \}\line 256  tr:last-child td \{ border-bottom: none; \}\line 257  tr:hover td \{ background: var(--gray-50); \}\line 258  \line 259  /* ============ BADGES ============ */\line 260  .badge \{\line 261    display: inline-flex; align-items: center; padding: 3px 10px;\line 262    border-radius: 20px; font-size: 11px; font-weight: 700; letter-spacing: 0.3px;\line 263  \}\line 264  .badge-admin \{ background: #ede9fe; color: #7c3aed; \}\line 265  .badge-clinician \{ background: #dbeafe; color: #1e40af; \}\line 266  .badge-patient \{ background: #d1fae5; color: #065f46; \}\line 267  .badge-success \{ background: var(--secondary-light); color: #065f46; \}\line 268  .badge-danger \{ background: var(--danger-light); color: #991b1b; \}\line 269  .badge-warning \{ background: var(--warning-light); color: #92400e; \}\line 270  .badge-info \{ background: var(--primary-light); color: #1e40af; \}\line 271  .badge-gray \{ background: var(--gray-200); color: var(--gray-700); \}\line 272  \line 273  /* ============ MODAL ============ */\line 274  .modal-overlay \{\line 275    position: fixed; inset: 0; background: rgba(0,0,0,0.5); z-index: 1000;\line 276    display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; padding: 20px;\line 277    animation: fadeIn 0.2s ease;\line 278  \}\line 279  .modal \{\line 280    background: white; border-radius: 14px; box-shadow: var(--shadow-lg);\line 281    width: 100%; max-width: 560px; max-height: 90vh; overflow-y: auto;\line 282    animation: slideUp 0.25s ease;\line 283  \}\line 284  .modal-header \{\line 285    display: flex; justify-content: space-between; align-items: center;\line 286    padding: 20px 24px; border-bottom: 1px solid var(--gray-200);\line 287  \}\line 288  .modal-header h3 \{ font-size: 16px; font-weight: 700; \}\line 289  .modal-close \{ background: none; border: none; font-size: 20px; cursor: pointer; color: var(--gray-500); \}\line 290  .modal-body \{ padding: 24px; \}\line 291  .modal-footer \{\line 292    display: flex; justify-content: flex-end; gap: 10px;\line 293    padding: 16px 24px; border-top: 1px solid var(--gray-200);\line 294  \}\line 295  \line 296  /* ============ ALERT ============ */\line 297  .alert \{\line 298    padding: 12px 16px; border-radius: 8px; margin-bottom: 16px;\line 299    font-size: 13px; font-weight: 500; display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 8px;\line 300  \}\line 301  .alert-error \{ background: var(--danger-light); color: #991b1b; border: 1px solid #fca5a5; \}\line 302  .alert-success \{ background: var(--secondary-light); color: #065f46; border: 1px solid #6ee7b7; \}\line 303  .alert-warning \{ background: var(--warning-light); color: #92400e; border: 1px solid #fcd34d; \}\line 304  .alert-info \{ background: var(--primary-light); color: #1e40af; border: 1px solid #93c5fd; \}\line 305  \line 306  /* ============ SEARCH & FILTER ============ */\line 307  .search-bar \{\line 308    display: flex; gap: 10px; align-items: center; margin-bottom: 16px;\line 309  \}\line 310  .search-bar input \{\line 311    flex: 1; padding: 9px 14px; border: 1.5px solid var(--gray-300);\line 312    border-radius: 8px; font-size: 13px; outline: none;\line 313  \}\line 314  .search-bar input:focus \{ border-color: var(--primary); box-shadow: 0 0 0 3px rgba(26,86,219,0.1); \}\line 315  \line 316  /* ============ PATIENT DETAIL ============ */\line 317  .info-grid \{\line 318    display: grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(200px, 1fr)); gap: 16px; margin-bottom: 20px;\line 319  \}\line 320  .info-item label \{ font-size: 11px; font-weight: 700; color: var(--gray-500); text-transform: uppercase; letter-spacing: 0.5px; \}\line 321  .info-item p \{ font-size: 14px; color: var(--gray-900); font-weight: 500; margin-top: 3px; \}\line 322  \line 323  /* ============ ACCESS DENIED ============ */\line 324  .access-denied-page \{\line 325    display: flex; flex-direction: column; align-items: center; justify-content: center;\line 326    min-height: 100vh; background: var(--gray-50); text-align: center; padding: 40px;\line 327  \}\line 328  .access-denied-page .icon \{ font-size: 72px; margin-bottom: 20px; \}\line 329  .access-denied-page h1 \{ font-size: 28px; font-weight: 800; color: var(--danger); margin-bottom: 12px; \}\line 330  .access-denied-page p \{ font-size: 15px; color: var(--gray-600); max-width: 400px; \}\line 331  \line 332  /* ============ LOADING ============ */\line 333  .loading-spinner \{\line 334    display: inline-block; width: 20px; height: 20px;\line 335    border: 2px solid rgba(255,255,255,0.3); border-radius: 50%;\line 336    border-top-color: white; animation: spin 0.8s linear infinite;\line 337  \}\line 338  .page-loader \{\line 339    display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center;\line 340    height: 300px; flex-direction: column; gap: 12px; color: var(--gray-500);\line 341  \}\line 342  .page-loader .spinner \{\line 343    width: 36px; height: 36px; border: 3px solid var(--gray-200);\line 344    border-radius: 50%; border-top-color: var(--primary); animation: spin 0.8s linear infinite;\line 345  \}\line 346  \line 347  /* ============ RECORD DETAIL ============ */\line 348  .record-card \{\line 349    background: white; border-radius: 12px; border: 1px solid var(--gray-200);\line 350    padding: 20px; margin-bottom: 14px; transition: box-shadow 0.2s;\line 351  \}\line 352  .record-card:hover \{ box-shadow: var(--shadow-md); \}\line 353  .record-header \{\line 354    display: flex; justify-content: space-between; align-items: flex-start;\line 355    margin-bottom: 14px; padding-bottom: 12px; border-bottom: 1px solid var(--gray-100);\line 356  \}\line 357  .record-date \{ font-size: 13px; color: var(--gray-500); \}\line 358  .record-body p \{ font-size: 13px; color: var(--gray-700); margin-bottom: 8px; \}\line 359  .record-body strong \{ color: var(--gray-900); font-weight: 600; \}\line 360  .record-section \{ margin-bottom: 10px; \}\line 361  .record-section-title \{ font-size: 11px; text-transform: uppercase; letter-spacing: 0.5px; font-weight: 700; color: var(--gray-400); margin-bottom: 4px; \}\line 362  \line 363  /* ============ TOAST NOTIFICATION ============ */\line 364  .toast-container \{ position: fixed; top: 20px; right: 20px; z-index: 9999; display: flex; flex-direction: column; gap: 8px; \}\line 365  .toast \{\line 366    background: white; border-radius: 10px; padding: 14px 18px;\line 367    box-shadow: 0 8px 24px rgba(0,0,0,0.15); border-left: 4px solid var(--primary);\line 368    min-width: 280px; max-width: 380px; animation: slideInRight 0.3s ease;\line 369    display: flex; align-items: center; gap: 10px; font-size: 13px;\line 370  \}\line 371  .toast.error \{ border-color: var(--danger); \}\line 372  .toast.success \{ border-color: var(--secondary); \}\line 373  .toast.warning \{ border-color: var(--warning); \}\line 374  \line 375  /* ============ EMPTY STATE ============ */\line 376  .empty-state \{\line 377    text-align: center; padding: 48px 24px; color: var(--gray-500);\line 378  \}\line 379  .empty-state .icon \{ font-size: 48px; margin-bottom: 14px; \}\line 380  .empty-state h3 \{ font-size: 16px; font-weight: 600; color: var(--gray-700); margin-bottom: 8px; \}\line 381  .empty-state p \{ font-size: 13px; \}\line 382  \line 383  /* ============ AUDIT LOG ============ */\line 384  .log-status-granted \{ color: var(--secondary); font-weight: 700; \}\line 385  .log-status-denied \{ color: var(--danger); font-weight: 700; \}\line 386  \line 387  /* ============ FORM LAYOUT ============ */\line 388  .form-grid \{ display: grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(220px, 1fr)); gap: 16px; \}\line 389  .form-full \{ grid-column: 1 / -1; \}\line 390  \line 391  /* ============ ANIMATIONS ============ */\line 392  @keyframes fadeIn \{ from \{ opacity: 0; \} to \{ opacity: 1; \} \}\line 393  @keyframes slideUp \{ from \{ opacity: 0; transform: translateY(20px); \} to \{ opacity: 1; transform: translateY(0); \} \}\line 394  @keyframes slideInRight \{ from \{ opacity: 0; transform: translateX(20px); \} to \{ opacity: 1; transform: translateX(0); \} \}\line 395  @keyframes spin \{ to \{ transform: rotate(360deg); \} \}\line 396  \line 397  /* ============ RESPONSIVE ============ */\line 398  @media (max-width: 768px) \{\line 399    .sidebar \{ transform: translateX(-100%); \}\line 400    .sidebar.open \{ transform: translateX(0); \}\line 401    .main-content \{ margin-left: 0; \}\line 402    .stats-grid \{ grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr); \}\line 403    .page-content \{ padding: 16px; \}\line 404  \}\line 405  \line 406  /* ============ SCROLLBAR ============ */\line 407  ::-webkit-scrollbar \{ width: 6px; height: 6px; \}\line 408  ::-webkit-scrollbar-track \{ background: transparent; \}\line 409  ::-webkit-scrollbar-thumb \{ background: var(--gray-300); border-radius: 3px; \}\line 410  ::-webkit-scrollbar-thumb:hover \{ background: var(--gray-400); \}\line 411  \line 412  /* ============ TABS ============ */\line 413  .tabs \{ display: flex; gap: 4px; border-bottom: 2px solid var(--gray-200); margin-bottom: 20px; \}\line 414  .tab \{\line 415    padding: 10px 16px; font-size: 13px; font-weight: 600;\line 416    color: var(--gray-500); cursor: pointer; border-bottom: 2px solid transparent;\line 417    margin-bottom: -2px; transition: all 0.15s;\line 418  \}\line 419  .tab.active \{ color: var(--primary); border-bottom-color: var(--primary); \}\line 420  .tab:hover:not(.active) \{ color: var(--gray-700); \}\line 421  \line 422  /* Role-specific accent colors */\line 423  .role-admin \{ color: #7c3aed; \}\line 424  .role-clinician \{ color: #1e40af; \}\line 425  .role-patient \{ color: #065f46; \}\line 426  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix B.4: Shared Frontend Script\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: frontend/assets/js/app.js\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Common client-side helpers for API access, session state, and rendering support.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file centralises common frontend logic that is reused across the HTML pages.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: It is loaded by every frontend page. It handles API communication with the backend, token attachment, authentication checks, logout, toasts, modals, sidebar rendering, formatting utilities, and badge helpers used throughout the dashboards.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Wraps fetch requests so authenticated API calls automatically include the JWT token.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides session helpers such as getUser(), getToken(), isLoggedIn(), and logout().\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Implements requireAuth() to redirect unauthorised users away from protected pages.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides reusable UI helpers for toasts, modals, sidebar state, dates, and status badges.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  /* ============================================\line   2     EHR RBAC System - Core Application JS\line   3     ============================================ */\line   4  \line   5  const API_BASE = '/api';\line   6  \line   7  // ============ API HELPERS ============\line   8  async function apiRequest(method, endpoint, body = null) \{\line   9    const token = localStorage.getItem('ehr_token');\line  10    const options = \{\line  11      method: method.toUpperCase(),\line  12      headers: \{ 'Content-Type': 'application/json' \}\line  13    \};\line  14    if (token) options.headers['Authorization'] = `Bearer $\{token\}`;\line  15    if (body) options.body = JSON.stringify(body);\line  16  \line  17    try \{\line  18      const res = await fetch(`$\{API_BASE\}$\{endpoint\}`, options);\line  19      const data = await res.json();\line  20  \line  21      if (res.status === 401) \{\line  22        logout();\line  23        return null;\line  24      \}\line  25      return \{ ok: res.ok, status: res.status, data \};\line  26    \} catch (err) \{\line  27      showToast('Network error. Please check your connection.', 'error');\line  28      return null;\line  29    \}\line  30  \}\line  31  \line  32  const api = \{\line  33    get: (ep) => apiRequest('GET', ep),\line  34    post: (ep, body) => apiRequest('POST', ep, body),\line  35    put: (ep, body) => apiRequest('PUT', ep, body),\line  36    delete: (ep) => apiRequest('DELETE', ep),\line  37  \};\line  38  \line  39  // ============ AUTH ============\line  40  function getUser() \{\line  41    const u = localStorage.getItem('ehr_user');\line  42    return u ? JSON.parse(u) : null;\line  43  \}\line  44  function getToken() \{ return localStorage.getItem('ehr_token'); \}\line  45  function isLoggedIn() \{ return !!getToken() && !!getUser(); \}\line  46  \line  47  function logout() \{\line  48    api.post('/auth/logout').catch(() => \{\});\line  49    localStorage.removeItem('ehr_token');\line  50    localStorage.removeItem('ehr_user');\line  51    window.location.href = '/';\line  52  \}\line  53  \line  54  // Guard \u\u\u redirect if not authenticated\line  55  function requireAuth(allowedRoles = []) \{\line  56    if (!isLoggedIn()) \{ window.location.href = '/'; return false; \}\line  57    const user = getUser();\line  58    if (allowedRoles.length && !allowedRoles.includes(user.role)) \{\line  59      window.location.href = '/access-denied.html';\line  60      return false;\line  61    \}\line  62    return true;\line  63  \}\line  64  \line  65  // ============ TOAST ============\line  66  function showToast(message, type = 'info', duration = 3500) \{\line  67    let container = document.querySelector('.toast-container');\line  68    if (!container) \{\line  69      container = document.createElement('div');\line  70      container.className = 'toast-container';\line  71      document.body.appendChild(container);\line  72    \}\line  73    const icons = \{ success: '\u\u\u', error: '\u\u\u', warning: '\u\u\u\u\u\u', info: '\u\u\u\u\u\u' \};\line  74    const toast = document.createElement('div');\line  75    toast.className = `toast $\{type\}`;\line  76    toast.innerHTML = `<span>$\{icons[type] || ''\}</span><span>$\{message\}</span>`;\line  77    container.appendChild(toast);\line  78    setTimeout(() => \{ toast.style.opacity = '0'; toast.style.transform = 'translateX(20px)'; toast.style.transition = '0.3s'; setTimeout(() => toast.remove(), 300); \}, duration);\line  79  \}\line  80  \line  81  // ============ MODAL ============\line  82  function openModal(id) \{ document.getElementById(id).style.display = 'flex'; \}\line  83  function closeModal(id) \{ document.getElementById(id).style.display = 'none'; \}\line  84  function createModal(id, title, bodyHtml, footerHtml = '') \{\line  85    let m = document.getElementById(id);\line  86    if (!m) \{ m = document.createElement('div'); m.id = id; m.className = 'modal-overlay'; document.body.appendChild(m); \}\line  87    m.innerHTML = `<div class="modal">\line  88      <div class="modal-header">\line  89        <h3>$\{title\}</h3>\line  90        <button class="modal-close" onclick="closeModal('$\{id\}')">\u\u\u</button>\line  91      </div>\line  92      <div class="modal-body">$\{bodyHtml\}</div>\line  93      $\{footerHtml ? `<div class="modal-footer">$\{footerHtml\}</div>` : ''\}\line  94    </div>`;\line  95    m.style.display = 'flex';\line  96    m.addEventListener('click', (e) => \{ if (e.target === m) closeModal(id); \});\line  97  \}\line  98  \line  99  // ============ SIDEBAR ============\line 100  function initSidebar(activeItem) \{\line 101    const user = getUser();\line 102    if (!user) return;\line 103  \line 104    const avatarColors = \{ admin: '#7c3aed', clinician: '#1e40af', patient: '#065f46' \};\line 105    const avatarColor = avatarColors[user.role] || '#374151';\line 106    const initials = user.name.split(' ').map(n => n[0]).join('').substring(0,2).toUpperCase();\line 107  \line 108    document.querySelectorAll('.user-avatar').forEach(el => \{\line 109      el.style.background = avatarColor;\line 110      el.textContent = initials;\line 111    \});\line 112    document.querySelectorAll('.sidebar-user-name').forEach(el => el.textContent = user.name);\line 113    document.querySelectorAll('.sidebar-user-role').forEach(el => el.textContent = user.role.charAt(0).toUpperCase() + user.role.slice(1));\line 114    document.querySelectorAll('.topbar-user-name').forEach(el => el.textContent = user.name);\line 115  \line 116    document.querySelectorAll('.nav-item').forEach(el => \{\line 117      el.classList.toggle('active', el.dataset.page === activeItem);\line 118    \});\line 119  \}\line 120  \line 121  // ============ DATE UTILS ============\line 122  function formatDate(dateStr) \{\line 123    if (!dateStr) return '\u\u\u';\line 124    const d = new Date(dateStr);\line 125    return d.toLocaleDateString('en-GB', \{ day: '2-digit', month: 'short', year: 'numeric' \});\line 126  \}\line 127  function formatDateTime(dateStr) \{\line 128    if (!dateStr) return '\u\u\u';\line 129    return new Date(dateStr).toLocaleString('en-GB', \{ day:'2-digit', month:'short', year:'numeric', hour:'2-digit', minute:'2-digit' \});\line 130  \}\line 131  \line 132  // ============ BADGE HELPERS ============\line 133  function roleBadge(role) \{\line 134    const labels = \{ admin: 'Admin', clinician: 'Clinician', patient: 'Patient' \};\line 135    return `<span class="badge badge-$\{role\}">$\{labels[role] || role\}</span>`;\line 136  \}\line 137  function statusBadge(status) \{\line 138    const map = \{\line 139      GRANTED: 'badge-success', DENIED: 'badge-danger',\line 140      scheduled: 'badge-info', completed: 'badge-success', cancelled: 'badge-gray',\line 141      '1': 'badge-success', '0': 'badge-danger',\line 142    \};\line 143    return `<span class="badge $\{map[status] || 'badge-gray'\}">$\{status\}</span>`;\line 144  \}\line 145  \line 146  // ============ EMPTY STATE ============\line 147  function emptyState(icon, title, text) \{\line 148    return `<div class="empty-state"><div class="icon">$\{icon\}</div><h3>$\{title\}</h3><p>$\{text\}</p></div>`;\line 149  \}\line 150  \line 151  // ============ PAGE LOADER ============\line 152  function showPageLoader(containerId) \{\line 153    document.getElementById(containerId).innerHTML = `<div class="page-loader"><div class="spinner"></div><p>Loading...</p></div>`;\line 154  \}\line 155  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix B.5: Administrator Dashboard\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: frontend/pages/admin/dashboard.html\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Admin frontend for user management, logs, and system monitoring.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file defines the administrator web interface for system-wide control and monitoring.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: After admin login, this dashboard consumes the admin API endpoints to display system statistics, recent logins, user management tools, medical records, audit logs, and role-permission summaries.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Contains dashboard, user management, all-records, audit-log, and roles-permissions sections.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Loads data dynamically from the protected admin endpoints.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides modal-driven user creation and editing actions.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Supports user deactivation and audit-log filtering within the same page.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  <!DOCTYPE html>\line   2  <html lang="en">\line   3  <head>\line   4    <meta charset="UTF-8">\line   5    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">\line   6    <title>Admin Dashboard \u\u\u SecureEHR</title>\line   7    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/css/style.css">\line   8    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Inter:wght@400;500;600;700;800&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">\line   9  </head>\line  10  <body>\line  11  <div class="dashboard-layout">\line  12  \line  13    <!-- SIDEBAR -->\line  14    <aside class="sidebar">\line  15      <div class="sidebar-header">\line  16        <div class="sidebar-logo">\line  17          <div class="logo-icon">\u\u\u\u</div>\line  18          <div class="sidebar-logo-text"><h2>SecureEHR</h2><p>Admin Panel</p></div>\line  19        </div>\line  20      </div>\line  21      <div class="sidebar-user">\line  22        <div class="user-avatar"></div>\line  23        <div class="sidebar-user-info">\line  24          <div class="name sidebar-user-name"></div>\line  25          <div class="role sidebar-user-role"></div>\line  26        </div>\line  27      </div>\line  28      <nav class="sidebar-nav">\line  29        <div class="nav-section-title">Main</div>\line  30        <div class="nav-item active" data-page="dashboard" onclick="showSection('dashboard')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Dashboard</div>\line  31        <div class="nav-section-title">Management</div>\line  32        <div class="nav-item" data-page="users" onclick="showSection('users')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> User Management</div>\line  33        <div class="nav-item" data-page="records" onclick="showSection('records')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> All Records</div>\line  34        <div class="nav-section-title">Security</div>\line  35        <div class="nav-item" data-page="audit" onclick="showSection('audit')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Audit Logs</div>\line  36        <div class="nav-item" data-page="roles" onclick="showSection('roles')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u\u\u\u</span> Roles & Permissions</div>\line  37      </nav>\line  38      <div class="sidebar-footer">\line  39        <button class="logout-btn" onclick="logout()"><span>\u\u\u\u</span> Sign Out</button>\line  40      </div>\line  41    </aside>\line  42  \line  43    <!-- MAIN CONTENT -->\line  44    <main class="main-content">\line  45      <div class="topbar">\line  46        <div class="topbar-title"><h1 id="section-title">Dashboard</h1><p id="section-subtitle">System overview and statistics</p></div>\line  47        <div style="display:flex; align-items:center; gap:12px;">\line  48          <span class="badge badge-admin">Administrator</span>\line  49          <span class="topbar-user-name" style="font-weight:600; font-size:13px;"></span>\line  50        </div>\line  51      </div>\line  52  \line  53      <div class="page-content">\line  54  \line  55        <!-- DASHBOARD SECTION -->\line  56        <section id="sec-dashboard">\line  57          <div class="stats-grid" id="stats-grid">\line  58            <div class="page-loader"><div class="spinner"></div></div>\line  59          </div>\line  60          <div style="display:grid; grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr; gap:20px;">\line  61            <div class="card">\line  62              <div class="card-header"><div><h3>Recent Logins</h3><p>Last 5 system logins</p></div></div>\line  63              <div id="recent-logins"><div class="page-loader"><div class="spinner"></div></div></div>\line  64            </div>\line  65            <div class="card">\line  66              <div class="card-header"><div><h3>Access Statistics</h3><p>RBAC enforcement summary</p></div></div>\line  67              <div id="access-stats"></div>\line  68            </div>\line  69          </div>\line  70        </section>\line  71  \line  72        <!-- USERS SECTION -->\line  73        <section id="sec-users" style="display:none;">\line  74          <div class="card">\line  75            <div class="card-header">\line  76              <div><h3>User Management</h3><p>Create and manage system users</p></div>\line  77              <button class="btn btn-primary btn-sm" onclick="openCreateUserModal()">+ Add User</button>\line  78            </div>\line  79            <div class="search-bar">\line  80              <input type="text" id="user-search" placeholder="Search users by name or email..." oninput="filterUsers()">\line  81              <select id="role-filter" onchange="filterUsers()" style="padding:9px 14px; border:1.5px solid #d1d5db; border-radius:8px; font-size:13px;">\line  82                <option value="">All Roles</option>\line  83                <option value="admin">Admin</option>\line  84                <option value="clinician">Clinician</option>\line  85                <option value="patient">Patient</option>\line  86              </select>\line  87            </div>\line  88            <div class="table-container">\line  89              <table>\line  90                <thead><tr><th>Name</th><th>Email</th><th>Role</th><th>Status</th><th>Created</th><th>Last Login</th><th>Actions</th></tr></thead>\line  91                <tbody id="users-table-body"></tbody>\line  92              </table>\line  93            </div>\line  94          </div>\line  95        </section>\line  96  \line  97        <!-- ALL RECORDS SECTION -->\line  98        <section id="sec-records" style="display:none;">\line  99          <div class="card">\line 100            <div class="card-header"><div><h3>All Medical Records</h3><p>System-wide patient health records</p></div></div>\line 101            <div class="table-container">\line 102              <table>\line 103                <thead><tr><th>Patient</th><th>Clinician</th><th>Visit Date</th><th>Diagnosis</th><th>Medications</th><th>Created</th></tr></thead>\line 104                <tbody id="records-table-body"></tbody>\line 105              </table>\line 106            </div>\line 107          </div>\line 108        </section>\line 109  \line 110        <!-- AUDIT LOGS SECTION -->\line 111        <section id="sec-audit" style="display:none;">\line 112          <div class="card">\line 113            <div class="card-header">\line 114              <div><h3>Audit Logs</h3><p>Complete system activity trail for accountability</p></div>\line 115              <select id="audit-filter" onchange="loadAuditLogs()" style="padding:9px 14px; border:1.5px solid #d1d5db; border-radius:8px; font-size:13px;">\line 116                <option value="">All Events</option>\line 117                <option value="GRANTED">Access Granted</option>\line 118                <option value="DENIED">Access Denied</option>\line 119              </select>\line 120            </div>\line 121            <div class="table-container">\line 122              <table>\line 123                <thead><tr><th>Time</th><th>User</th><th>Role</th><th>Action</th><th>Resource</th><th>Method</th><th>Status</th><th>IP Address</th></tr></thead>\line 124                <tbody id="audit-table-body"></tbody>\line 125              </table>\line 126            </div>\line 127            <div style="margin-top:16px; display:flex; justify-content:center; gap:8px;" id="audit-pagination"></div>\line 128          </div>\line 129        </section>\line 130  \line 131        <!-- ROLES & PERMISSIONS SECTION -->\line 132        <section id="sec-roles" style="display:none;">\line 133          <div id="roles-container"></div>\line 134        </section>\line 135  \line 136      </div>\line 137    </main>\line 138  </div>\line 139  \line 140  <!-- Create/Edit User Modal -->\line 141  <div id="user-modal" class="modal-overlay" style="display:none;">\line 142    <div class="modal">\line 143      <div class="modal-header">\line 144        <h3 id="user-modal-title">Create New User</h3>\line 145        <button class="modal-close" onclick="closeModal('user-modal')">\u\u\u</button>\line 146      </div>\line 147      <div class="modal-body">\line 148        <div id="user-form-alert" style="display:none;"></div>\line 149        <div class="form-grid">\line 150          <div class="form-group"><label>Full Name</label><input type="text" id="u-name" placeholder="e.g. Dr. John Smith" required></div>\line 151          <div class="form-group"><label>Email Address</label><input type="email" id="u-email" placeholder="user@example.com" required></div>\line 152          <div class="form-group"><label>Password</label><input type="password" id="u-password" placeholder="Min 8 characters"></div>\line 153          <div class="form-group"><label>Role</label>\line 154            <select id="u-role">\line 155              <option value="patient">Patient</option>\line 156              <option value="clinician">Clinician</option>\line 157              <option value="admin">Administrator</option>\line 158            </select>\line 159          </div>\line 160        </div>\line 161      </div>\line 162      <div class="modal-footer">\line 163        <button class="btn btn-secondary" onclick="closeModal('user-modal')">Cancel</button>\line 164        <button class="btn btn-primary" id="user-modal-save" onclick="saveUser()">Create User</button>\line 165      </div>\line 166    </div>\line 167  </div>\line 168  \line 169  <script src="/assets/js/app.js"></script>\line 170  <script>\line 171    let allUsers = [];\line 172    let currentEditingUserId = null;\line 173    let auditPage = 1;\line 174  \line 175    if (!requireAuth(['admin'])) throw new Error('auth');\line 176    initSidebar('dashboard');\line 177  \line 178    function showSection(name) \{\line 179      ['dashboard','users','records','audit','roles'].forEach(s => \{\line 180        document.getElementById(`sec-$\{s\}`).style.display = s === name ? 'block' : 'none';\line 181      \});\line 182      document.querySelectorAll('.nav-item').forEach(el => el.classList.toggle('active', el.dataset.page === name));\line 183  \line 184      const titles = \{\line 185        dashboard: ['Dashboard', 'System overview and statistics'],\line 186        users: ['User Management', 'Manage system users and their roles'],\line 187        records: ['Medical Records', 'View all patient health records'],\line 188        audit: ['Audit Logs', 'Complete system activity trail'],\line 189        roles: ['Roles & Permissions', 'View RBAC role definitions']\line 190      \};\line 191      document.getElementById('section-title').textContent = titles[name][0];\line 192      document.getElementById('section-subtitle').textContent = titles[name][1];\line 193  \line 194      if (name === 'users') loadUsers();\line 195      if (name === 'records') loadAllRecords();\line 196      if (name === 'audit') loadAuditLogs();\line 197      if (name === 'roles') loadRoles();\line 198    \}\line 199  \line 200    async function loadDashboard() \{\line 201      const res = await api.get('/admin/dashboard');\line 202      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 203      const d = res.data.data;\line 204  \line 205      document.getElementById('stats-grid').innerHTML = `\line 206        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon blue">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.total_users\}</div><div class="label">Total Users</div></div></div>\line 207        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon green">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.total_clinicians\}</div><div class="label">Clinicians</div></div></div>\line 208        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon blue">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.total_patients\}</div><div class="label">Patients</div></div></div>\line 209        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon green">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.total_records\}</div><div class="label">Medical Records</div></div></div>\line 210        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon yellow">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.upcoming_appointments\}</div><div class="label">Upcoming Appointments</div></div></div>\line 211        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon red">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.total_denied_access\}</div><div class="label">Access Denied Events</div></div></div>\line 212      `;\line 213  \line 214      const logins = d.recent_logins;\line 215      document.getElementById('recent-logins').innerHTML = logins.length ? `\line 216        <div class="table-container"><table>\line 217          <thead><tr><th>User</th><th>Role</th><th>Time</th></tr></thead>\line 218          <tbody>$\{logins.map(l => `<tr><td>$\{l.user_email||'\u\u\u'\}</td><td>$\{l.user_role ? roleBadge(l.user_role) : '\u\u\u'\}</td><td>$\{formatDateTime(l.timestamp)\}</td></tr>`).join('')\}</tbody>\line 219        </table></div>` : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No logins yet','');\line 220  \line 221      document.getElementById('access-stats').innerHTML = `\line 222        <div style="padding:10px 0;">\line 223          <div style="display:flex; justify-content:space-between; align-items:center; padding:12px 0; border-bottom:1px solid var(--gray-100);">\line 224            <span style="font-size:13px; font-weight:500;">Total Administrators</span>\line 225            <span class="badge badge-admin">$\{d.total_admins\}</span>\line 226          </div>\line 227          <div style="display:flex; justify-content:space-between; align-items:center; padding:12px 0; border-bottom:1px solid var(--gray-100);">\line 228            <span style="font-size:13px; font-weight:500;">Total Clinicians</span>\line 229            <span class="badge badge-clinician">$\{d.total_clinicians\}</span>\line 230          </div>\line 231          <div style="display:flex; justify-content:space-between; align-items:center; padding:12px 0; border-bottom:1px solid var(--gray-100);">\line 232            <span style="font-size:13px; font-weight:500;">Total Patients</span>\line 233            <span class="badge badge-patient">$\{d.total_patients\}</span>\line 234          </div>\line 235          <div style="display:flex; justify-content:space-between; align-items:center; padding:12px 0; border-bottom:1px solid var(--gray-100);">\line 236            <span style="font-size:13px; font-weight:500;">Access Denied Events</span>\line 237            <span class="badge badge-danger">$\{d.total_denied_access\}</span>\line 238          </div>\line 239          <div style="display:flex; justify-content:space-between; align-items:center; padding:12px 0;">\line 240            <span style="font-size:13px; font-weight:500;">Total Appointments</span>\line 241            <span class="badge badge-info">$\{d.total_appointments\}</span>\line 242          </div>\line 243        </div>`;\line 244    \}\line 245  \line 246    async function loadUsers() \{\line 247      document.getElementById('users-table-body').innerHTML = '<tr><td colspan="7" style="text-align:center; padding:30px;">Loading...</td></tr>';\line 248      const res = await api.get('/admin/users');\line 249      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 250      allUsers = res.data.data;\line 251      renderUsers(allUsers);\line 252    \}\line 253  \line 254    function renderUsers(users) \{\line 255      const tbody = document.getElementById('users-table-body');\line 256      if (!users.length) \{ tbody.innerHTML = `<tr><td colspan="7">$\{emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No users found','')\}</td></tr>`; return; \}\line 257      tbody.innerHTML = users.map(u => `\line 258        <tr>\line 259          <td><strong>$\{u.name\}</strong></td>\line 260          <td>$\{u.email\}</td>\line 261          <td>$\{roleBadge(u.role)\}</td>\line 262          <td>$\{u.is_active ? '<span class="badge badge-success">Active</span>' : '<span class="badge badge-danger">Inactive</span>'\}</td>\line 263          <td>$\{formatDate(u.created_at)\}</td>\line 264          <td>$\{u.last_login ? formatDateTime(u.last_login) : '<span style="color:var(--gray-400)">Never</span>'\}</td>\line 265          <td style="display:flex; gap:6px; flex-wrap:wrap;">\line 266            <button class="btn btn-outline btn-sm" onclick="openEditUser($\{u.id\})">Edit</button>\line 267            $\{u.is_active ? `<button class="btn btn-danger btn-sm" onclick="deactivateUser($\{u.id\},'$\{u.name\}')">Deactivate</button>` : ''\}\line 268          </td>\line 269        </tr>`).join('');\line 270    \}\line 271  \line 272    function filterUsers() \{\line 273      const q = document.getElementById('user-search').value.toLowerCase();\line 274      const role = document.getElementById('role-filter').value;\line 275      renderUsers(allUsers.filter(u =>\line 276        (u.name.toLowerCase().includes(q) || u.email.toLowerCase().includes(q)) &&\line 277        (!role || u.role === role)\line 278      ));\line 279    \}\line 280  \line 281    function openCreateUserModal() \{\line 282      currentEditingUserId = null;\line 283      document.getElementById('user-modal-title').textContent = 'Create New User';\line 284      document.getElementById('user-modal-save').textContent = 'Create User';\line 285      ['u-name','u-email','u-password'].forEach(id => document.getElementById(id).value = '');\line 286      document.getElementById('u-role').value = 'patient';\line 287      document.getElementById('u-password').placeholder = 'Min 8 characters (required)';\line 288      document.getElementById('user-form-alert').style.display = 'none';\line 289      openModal('user-modal');\line 290    \}\line 291  \line 292    function openEditUser(userId) \{\line 293      const user = allUsers.find(u => u.id === userId);\line 294      if (!user) return;\line 295      currentEditingUserId = userId;\line 296      document.getElementById('user-modal-title').textContent = 'Edit User';\line 297      document.getElementById('user-modal-save').textContent = 'Update User';\line 298      document.getElementById('u-name').value = user.name;\line 299      document.getElementById('u-email').value = user.email;\line 300      document.getElementById('u-password').value = '';\line 301      document.getElementById('u-password').placeholder = 'Leave blank to keep current password';\line 302      document.getElementById('u-role').value = user.role;\line 303      document.getElementById('user-form-alert').style.display = 'none';\line 304      openModal('user-modal');\line 305    \}\line 306  \line 307    async function saveUser() \{\line 308      const alertDiv = document.getElementById('user-form-alert');\line 309      const name = document.getElementById('u-name').value.trim();\line 310      const email = document.getElementById('u-email').value.trim();\line 311      const password = document.getElementById('u-password').value;\line 312      const role = document.getElementById('u-role').value;\line 313  \line 314      if (!name || !email || (!currentEditingUserId && !password)) \{\line 315        alertDiv.className = 'alert alert-error';\line 316        alertDiv.textContent = 'Please fill in all required fields.';\line 317        alertDiv.style.display = 'flex';\line 318        return;\line 319      \}\line 320  \line 321      let res;\line 322      if (currentEditingUserId) \{\line 323        res = await api.put(`/admin/users/$\{currentEditingUserId\}`, \{ name, email, role \});\line 324      \} else \{\line 325        res = await api.post('/admin/users', \{ name, email, password, role \});\line 326      \}\line 327  \line 328      if (res && res.ok) \{\line 329        closeModal('user-modal');\line 330        showToast(currentEditingUserId ? 'User updated successfully.' : 'User created successfully.', 'success');\line 331        loadUsers();\line 332      \} else \{\line 333        alertDiv.className = 'alert alert-error';\line 334        alertDiv.textContent = res?.data?.message || 'Operation failed.';\line 335        alertDiv.style.display = 'flex';\line 336      \}\line 337    \}\line 338  \line 339    async function deactivateUser(id, name) \{\line 340      if (!confirm(`Deactivate user "$\{name\}"? They will no longer be able to log in.`)) return;\line 341      const res = await api.delete(`/admin/users/$\{id\}`);\line 342      if (res && res.ok) \{\line 343        showToast('User deactivated.', 'success');\line 344        loadUsers();\line 345      \} else \{\line 346        showToast(res?.data?.message || 'Failed to deactivate.', 'error');\line 347      \}\line 348    \}\line 349  \line 350    async function loadAllRecords() \{\line 351      document.getElementById('records-table-body').innerHTML = '<tr><td colspan="6" style="text-align:center;padding:30px;">Loading...</td></tr>';\line 352      const res = await api.get('/admin/all-records');\line 353      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 354      const records = res.data.data;\line 355      document.getElementById('records-table-body').innerHTML = records.length ?\line 356        records.map(r => `<tr>\line 357          <td><strong>$\{r.patient_name\}</strong><br><span style="color:var(--gray-500); font-size:12px;">$\{r.patient_email\}</span></td>\line 358          <td>$\{r.clinician_name\}</td>\line 359          <td>$\{formatDate(r.visit_date)\}</td>\line 360          <td>$\{r.diagnosis || '\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 361          <td style="max-width:200px; white-space:nowrap; overflow:hidden; text-overflow:ellipsis;">$\{r.medications || '\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 362          <td>$\{formatDateTime(r.created_at)\}</td>\line 363        </tr>`).join('') :\line 364        `<tr><td colspan="6">$\{emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No records','')\}</td></tr>`;\line 365    \}\line 366  \line 367    async function loadAuditLogs() \{\line 368      const filter = document.getElementById('audit-filter').value;\line 369      document.getElementById('audit-table-body').innerHTML = '<tr><td colspan="8" style="text-align:center;padding:30px;">Loading...</td></tr>';\line 370      const res = await api.get(`/admin/audit-logs?limit=100&status=$\{filter\}`);\line 371      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 372      const logs = res.data.data;\line 373      document.getElementById('audit-table-body').innerHTML = logs.length ?\line 374        logs.map(l => `<tr>\line 375          <td style="white-space:nowrap;">$\{formatDateTime(l.timestamp)\}</td>\line 376          <td>$\{l.user_email || '<span style="color:var(--gray-400)">Unknown</span>'\}</td>\line 377          <td>$\{l.user_role ? roleBadge(l.user_role) : '\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 378          <td><code style="font-size:11px; background:var(--gray-100); padding:2px 6px; border-radius:4px;">$\{l.action\}</code></td>\line 379          <td style="font-size:12px; color:var(--gray-600); max-width:200px; overflow:hidden; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;">$\{l.resource || '\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 380          <td><span class="badge badge-gray">$\{l.method || '\u\u\u'\}</span></td>\line 381          <td>$\{l.status === 'GRANTED' ? '<span class="log-status-granted">\u\u\u GRANTED</span>' : '<span class="log-status-denied">\u\u\u DENIED</span>'\}</td>\line 382          <td style="font-size:12px; font-family:monospace;">$\{l.ip_address || '\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 383        </tr>`).join('') :\line 384        `<tr><td colspan="8">$\{emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No logs','')\}</td></tr>`;\line 385    \}\line 386  \line 387    async function loadRoles() \{\line 388      const res = await api.get('/admin/roles');\line 389      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 390      const roles = res.data.data;\line 391      const roleColors = \{ admin: '#7c3aed', clinician: '#1e40af', patient: '#065f46' \};\line 392      document.getElementById('roles-container').innerHTML = `\line 393        <div style="display:grid; grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(300px, 1fr)); gap:20px;">\line 394          $\{roles.map(r => `\line 395            <div class="card">\line 396              <div class="card-header">\line 397                <div style="display:flex; align-items:center; gap:10px;">\line 398                  <div style="width:40px;height:40px;border-radius:10px;background:$\{roleColors[r.role_name]||'#374151'\};display:flex;align-items:center;justify-content:center;font-size:20px;">\line 399                    $\{r.role_name === 'admin' ? '\u\u\u\u\u\u\u' : r.role_name === 'clinician' ? '\u\u\u\u' : '\u\u\u\u'\}\line 400                  </div>\line 401                  <div><h3>$\{r.role_name.charAt(0).toUpperCase()+r.role_name.slice(1)\}</h3><p>$\{r.description\}</p></div>\line 402                </div>\line 403              </div>\line 404              <div>\line 405                <p style="font-size:12px;font-weight:700;text-transform:uppercase;letter-spacing:0.5px;color:var(--gray-500);margin-bottom:10px;">Permissions ($\{r.permissions.length\})</p>\line 406                $\{r.permissions.map(p => `\line 407                  <div style="display:flex;align-items:center;gap:8px;padding:6px 0;border-bottom:1px solid var(--gray-100);">\line 408                    <span style="color:var(--secondary);">\u\u\u</span>\line 409                    <div>\line 410                      <div style="font-size:13px;font-weight:600;">$\{p.permission_name.replace(/_/g,' ').replace(/\\b\\w/g,c=>c.toUpperCase())\}</div>\line 411                      <div style="font-size:11px;color:var(--gray-500);">$\{p.description\}</div>\line 412                    </div>\line 413                  </div>`).join('')\}\line 414              </div>\line 415            </div>`).join('')\}\line 416        </div>`;\line 417    \}\line 418  \line 419    loadDashboard();\line 420  </script>\line 421  </body>\line 422  </html>\line 423  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix B.6: Clinician Dashboard\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: frontend/pages/clinician/dashboard.html\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Clinician frontend for records, patients, and appointments.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file defines the clinician-facing user interface for day-to-day healthcare operations.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: After clinician login, the page loads clinician dashboard statistics, patient registry data, individual patient detail views, record creation forms, and appointment scheduling tools by calling the clinician API endpoints.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Displays a clinician dashboard with workload and activity summaries.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Shows a searchable patient registry and full patient-detail view.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Allows creation of new medical records through a modal form.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Allows appointment scheduling and appointment status updates.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  <!DOCTYPE html>\line   2  <html lang="en">\line   3  <head>\line   4    <meta charset="UTF-8">\line   5    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">\line   6    <title>Clinician Dashboard \u\u\u SecureEHR</title>\line   7    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/css/style.css">\line   8    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Inter:wght@400;500;600;700;800&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">\line   9  </head>\line  10  <body>\line  11  <div class="dashboard-layout">\line  12  \line  13    <aside class="sidebar">\line  14      <div class="sidebar-header">\line  15        <div class="sidebar-logo">\line  16          <div class="logo-icon">\u\u\u\u</div>\line  17          <div class="sidebar-logo-text"><h2>SecureEHR</h2><p>Clinician Panel</p></div>\line  18        </div>\line  19      </div>\line  20      <div class="sidebar-user">\line  21        <div class="user-avatar"></div>\line  22        <div class="sidebar-user-info">\line  23          <div class="name sidebar-user-name"></div>\line  24          <div class="role sidebar-user-role"></div>\line  25        </div>\line  26      </div>\line  27      <nav class="sidebar-nav">\line  28        <div class="nav-section-title">Main</div>\line  29        <div class="nav-item active" data-page="dashboard" onclick="showSection('dashboard')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Dashboard</div>\line  30        <div class="nav-section-title">Clinical</div>\line  31        <div class="nav-item" data-page="patients" onclick="showSection('patients')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Patients</div>\line  32        <div class="nav-item" data-page="records" onclick="showSection('records')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Medical Records</div>\line  33        <div class="nav-item" data-page="appointments" onclick="showSection('appointments')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Appointments</div>\line  34      </nav>\line  35      <div class="sidebar-footer">\line  36        <button class="logout-btn" onclick="logout()"><span>\u\u\u\u</span> Sign Out</button>\line  37      </div>\line  38    </aside>\line  39  \line  40    <main class="main-content">\line  41      <div class="topbar">\line  42        <div class="topbar-title"><h1 id="section-title">Dashboard</h1><p id="section-subtitle">Your clinical overview</p></div>\line  43        <div style="display:flex; align-items:center; gap:12px;">\line  44          <span class="badge badge-clinician">Clinician</span>\line  45          <span class="topbar-user-name" style="font-weight:600; font-size:13px;"></span>\line  46        </div>\line  47      </div>\line  48  \line  49      <div class="page-content">\line  50  \line  51        <!-- DASHBOARD -->\line  52        <section id="sec-dashboard">\line  53          <div class="stats-grid" id="clin-stats"></div>\line  54          <div style="display:grid; grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr; gap:20px;">\line  55            <div class="card">\line  56              <div class="card-header"><div><h3>Recent Patients</h3><p>Patients you recently attended</p></div></div>\line  57              <div id="recent-patients"></div>\line  58            </div>\line  59            <div class="card">\line  60              <div class="card-header"><div><h3>Upcoming Appointments</h3></div><button class="btn btn-primary btn-sm" onclick="showSection('appointments')">View All</button></div>\line  61              <div id="upcoming-appts"></div>\line  62            </div>\line  63          </div>\line  64        </section>\line  65  \line  66        <!-- PATIENTS -->\line  67        <section id="sec-patients" style="display:none;">\line  68          <div class="card">\line  69            <div class="card-header"><div><h3>Patient Registry</h3><p>All registered patients</p></div></div>\line  70            <div class="search-bar">\line  71              <input type="text" id="patient-search" placeholder="Search by name or email..." oninput="filterPatients()">\line  72            </div>\line  73            <div class="table-container">\line  74              <table>\line  75                <thead><tr><th>Name</th><th>Email</th><th>DOB</th><th>Gender</th><th>Blood Group</th><th>Phone</th><th>Allergies</th><th>Action</th></tr></thead>\line  76                <tbody id="patients-table-body"></tbody>\line  77              </table>\line  78            </div>\line  79          </div>\line  80        </section>\line  81  \line  82        <!-- RECORDS -->\line  83        <section id="sec-records" style="display:none;">\line  84          <div class="card">\line  85            <div class="card-header">\line  86              <div><h3>Medical Records</h3><p>Records you have created</p></div>\line  87              <button class="btn btn-primary btn-sm" onclick="openNewRecordModal()">+ New Record</button>\line  88            </div>\line  89            <div id="records-list"></div>\line  90          </div>\line  91        </section>\line  92  \line  93        <!-- APPOINTMENTS -->\line  94        <section id="sec-appointments" style="display:none;">\line  95          <div class="card">\line  96            <div class="card-header">\line  97              <div><h3>Appointments</h3><p>Your scheduled and completed appointments</p></div>\line  98              <button class="btn btn-primary btn-sm" onclick="openApptModal()">+ New Appointment</button>\line  99            </div>\line 100            <div class="table-container">\line 101              <table>\line 102                <thead><tr><th>Patient</th><th>Date</th><th>Time</th><th>Reason</th><th>Status</th><th>Action</th></tr></thead>\line 103                <tbody id="appts-table-body"></tbody>\line 104              </table>\line 105            </div>\line 106          </div>\line 107        </section>\line 108  \line 109        <!-- PATIENT DETAIL -->\line 110        <section id="sec-patient-detail" style="display:none;">\line 111          <div style="margin-bottom:16px;">\line 112            <button class="btn btn-secondary btn-sm" onclick="showSection('patients')">\u\u\u Back to Patients</button>\line 113          </div>\line 114          <div id="patient-detail-content"></div>\line 115        </section>\line 116  \line 117      </div>\line 118    </main>\line 119  </div>\line 120  \line 121  <!-- New Medical Record Modal -->\line 122  <div id="record-modal" class="modal-overlay" style="display:none;">\line 123    <div class="modal" style="max-width:680px;">\line 124      <div class="modal-header"><h3>New Medical Record</h3><button class="modal-close" onclick="closeModal('record-modal')">\u\u\u</button></div>\line 125      <div class="modal-body">\line 126        <div id="record-form-alert" style="display:none;"></div>\line 127        <div class="form-grid">\line 128          <div class="form-group form-full">\line 129            <label>Patient</label>\line 130            <select id="r-patient"><option value="">Select patient...</option></select>\line 131          </div>\line 132          <div class="form-group"><label>Visit Date</label><input type="date" id="r-date"></div>\line 133          <div class="form-group"><label>Chief Complaint</label><input type="text" id="r-complaint" placeholder="Presenting complaint"></div>\line 134          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Diagnosis</label><textarea id="r-diagnosis" rows="2" placeholder="Clinical diagnosis"></textarea></div>\line 135          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Vital Signs</label><input type="text" id="r-vitals" placeholder="e.g. BP: 120/80, Temp: 37\u\uC, HR: 72bpm, SpO2: 99%"></div>\line 136          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Medications Prescribed</label><textarea id="r-medications" rows="2" placeholder="Medications, dosage, and frequency"></textarea></div>\line 137          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Treatment Plan</label><textarea id="r-treatment" rows="2" placeholder="Management and treatment plan"></textarea></div>\line 138          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Lab Results</label><textarea id="r-labs" rows="2" placeholder="Laboratory and investigation results"></textarea></div>\line 139          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Clinical Notes</label><textarea id="r-notes" rows="2" placeholder="Additional notes"></textarea></div>\line 140        </div>\line 141      </div>\line 142      <div class="modal-footer">\line 143        <button class="btn btn-secondary" onclick="closeModal('record-modal')">Cancel</button>\line 144        <button class="btn btn-primary" onclick="saveRecord()">Save Record</button>\line 145      </div>\line 146    </div>\line 147  </div>\line 148  \line 149  <!-- New Appointment Modal -->\line 150  <div id="appt-modal" class="modal-overlay" style="display:none;">\line 151    <div class="modal">\line 152      <div class="modal-header"><h3>Schedule Appointment</h3><button class="modal-close" onclick="closeModal('appt-modal')">\u\u\u</button></div>\line 153      <div class="modal-body">\line 154        <div id="appt-form-alert" style="display:none;"></div>\line 155        <div class="form-grid">\line 156          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Patient</label><select id="a-patient"><option value="">Select patient...</option></select></div>\line 157          <div class="form-group"><label>Date</label><input type="date" id="a-date"></div>\line 158          <div class="form-group"><label>Time</label><input type="time" id="a-time"></div>\line 159          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Reason</label><input type="text" id="a-reason" placeholder="Reason for appointment"></div>\line 160          <div class="form-group form-full"><label>Notes</label><textarea id="a-notes" rows="2" placeholder="Additional notes"></textarea></div>\line 161        </div>\line 162      </div>\line 163      <div class="modal-footer">\line 164        <button class="btn btn-secondary" onclick="closeModal('appt-modal')">Cancel</button>\line 165        <button class="btn btn-primary" onclick="saveAppt()">Schedule</button>\line 166      </div>\line 167    </div>\line 168  </div>\line 169  \line 170  <script src="/assets/js/app.js"></script>\line 171  <script>\line 172    let allPatients = [];\line 173    if (!requireAuth(['clinician'])) throw new Error('auth');\line 174    initSidebar('dashboard');\line 175  \line 176    function showSection(name) \{\line 177      ['dashboard','patients','records','appointments','patient-detail'].forEach(s => \{\line 178        document.getElementById(`sec-$\{s\}`).style.display = s === name ? 'block' : 'none';\line 179      \});\line 180      document.querySelectorAll('.nav-item').forEach(el => el.classList.toggle('active', el.dataset.page === name));\line 181      const titles = \{\line 182        dashboard: ['Dashboard','Your clinical overview'],\line 183        patients: ['Patients','Patient registry'],\line 184        records: ['Medical Records','Records you have created'],\line 185        appointments: ['Appointments','Your scheduled appointments'],\line 186        'patient-detail': ['Patient Detail','Full patient health record']\line 187      \};\line 188      if (titles[name]) \{\line 189        document.getElementById('section-title').textContent = titles[name][0];\line 190        document.getElementById('section-subtitle').textContent = titles[name][1];\line 191      \}\line 192      if (name === 'patients') loadPatients();\line 193      if (name === 'records') loadRecords();\line 194      if (name === 'appointments') loadAppointments();\line 195    \}\line 196  \line 197    async function loadDashboard() \{\line 198      const res = await api.get('/clinician/dashboard');\line 199      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 200      const d = res.data.data;\line 201      document.getElementById('clin-stats').innerHTML = `\line 202        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon blue">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.my_patients\}</div><div class="label">My Patients</div></div></div>\line 203        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon yellow">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.my_appointments\}</div><div class="label">Upcoming Appointments</div></div></div>\line 204        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon green">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.records_created\}</div><div class="label">Records Created</div></div></div>\line 205      `;\line 206      document.getElementById('recent-patients').innerHTML = d.recent_patients.length ?\line 207        d.recent_patients.map(p => `\line 208          <div style="display:flex;justify-content:space-between;align-items:center;padding:10px 0;border-bottom:1px solid var(--gray-100);cursor:pointer;" onclick="viewPatient($\{p.id\})">\line 209            <div>\line 210              <div style="font-weight:600;font-size:13px;">$\{p.name\}</div>\line 211              <div style="font-size:12px;color:var(--gray-500);">$\{p.diagnosis||'No diagnosis'\} \u\u $\{formatDate(p.visit_date)\}</div>\line 212            </div>\line 213            <span style="color:var(--primary);font-size:12px;">View \u\u\u</span>\line 214          </div>`).join('') : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No patients yet','');\line 215  \line 216      document.getElementById('upcoming-appts').innerHTML = d.upcoming_appointments.length ?\line 217        d.upcoming_appointments.map(a => `\line 218          <div style="padding:10px 0;border-bottom:1px solid var(--gray-100);">\line 219            <div style="font-weight:600;font-size:13px;">$\{a.patient_name\}</div>\line 220            <div style="font-size:12px;color:var(--gray-500);">$\{formatDate(a.appointment_date)\} at $\{a.appointment_time\}</div>\line 221            <div style="font-size:12px;color:var(--gray-600);margin-top:2px;">$\{a.reason||'No reason specified'\}</div>\line 222          </div>`).join('') : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No upcoming appointments','');\line 223    \}\line 224  \line 225    async function loadPatients() \{\line 226      document.getElementById('patients-table-body').innerHTML = '<tr><td colspan="8" style="text-align:center;padding:30px;">Loading...</td></tr>';\line 227      const res = await api.get('/clinician/patients');\line 228      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 229      allPatients = res.data.data;\line 230      renderPatients(allPatients);\line 231      populatePatientSelects();\line 232    \}\line 233  \line 234    function renderPatients(patients) \{\line 235      document.getElementById('patients-table-body').innerHTML = patients.length ?\line 236        patients.map(p => `<tr>\line 237          <td><strong>$\{p.name\}</strong></td>\line 238          <td>$\{p.email\}</td>\line 239          <td>$\{p.date_of_birth ? formatDate(p.date_of_birth) : '\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 240          <td>$\{p.gender||'\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 241          <td><span class="badge badge-info">$\{p.blood_group||'\u\u\u'\}</span></td>\line 242          <td>$\{p.phone||'\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 243          <td>$\{p.allergies||'None'\}</td>\line 244          <td><button class="btn btn-primary btn-sm" onclick="viewPatient($\{p.id\})">View</button></td>\line 245        </tr>`).join('') :\line 246        `<tr><td colspan="8">$\{emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No patients registered','')\}</td></tr>`;\line 247    \}\line 248  \line 249    function filterPatients() \{\line 250      const q = document.getElementById('patient-search').value.toLowerCase();\line 251      renderPatients(allPatients.filter(p => p.name.toLowerCase().includes(q) || p.email.toLowerCase().includes(q)));\line 252    \}\line 253  \line 254    function populatePatientSelects() \{\line 255      const opts = allPatients.map(p => `<option value="$\{p.id\}">$\{p.name\} ($\{p.email\})</option>`).join('');\line 256      document.getElementById('r-patient').innerHTML = '<option value="">Select patient...</option>' + opts;\line 257      document.getElementById('a-patient').innerHTML = '<option value="">Select patient...</option>' + opts;\line 258    \}\line 259  \line 260    async function viewPatient(patientId) \{\line 261      showSection('patient-detail');\line 262      document.getElementById('section-title').textContent = 'Patient Detail';\line 263      document.getElementById('patient-detail-content').innerHTML = '<div class="page-loader"><div class="spinner"></div><p>Loading patient data...</p></div>';\line 264  \line 265      const res = await api.get(`/clinician/patients/$\{patientId\}`);\line 266      if (!res || !res.ok) \{ document.getElementById('patient-detail-content').innerHTML = '<div class="alert alert-error">Failed to load patient data.</div>'; return; \}\line 267  \line 268      const \{ patient: p, records, appointments \} = res.data.data;\line 269      document.getElementById('patient-detail-content').innerHTML = `\line 270        <div class="card">\line 271          <div class="card-header">\line 272            <div style="display:flex;align-items:center;gap:14px;">\line 273              <div style="width:52px;height:52px;border-radius:50%;background:var(--secondary);display:flex;align-items:center;justify-content:center;color:white;font-weight:700;font-size:18px;">$\{p.name.split(' ').map(n=>n[0]).join('').substring(0,2)\}</div>\line 274              <div><h3>$\{p.name\}</h3><p>$\{p.email\}</p></div>\line 275            </div>\line 276            <button class="btn btn-primary btn-sm" onclick="openNewRecordForPatient($\{p.id\}, '$\{p.name\}')">+ Add Record</button>\line 277          </div>\line 278          <div class="info-grid">\line 279            <div class="info-item"><label>Date of Birth</label><p>$\{p.date_of_birth ? formatDate(p.date_of_birth) : '\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 280            <div class="info-item"><label>Gender</label><p>$\{p.gender||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 281            <div class="info-item"><label>Blood Group</label><p>$\{p.blood_group||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 282            <div class="info-item"><label>Phone</label><p>$\{p.phone||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 283            <div class="info-item"><label>Address</label><p>$\{p.address||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 284            <div class="info-item"><label>Emergency Contact</label><p>$\{p.emergency_contact||'\u\u\u'\} $\{p.emergency_phone ? '\u\u '+p.emergency_phone : ''\}</p></div>\line 285            <div class="info-item"><label>Insurance No.</label><p>$\{p.insurance_number||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 286            <div class="info-item"><label>Allergies</label><p style="color:$\{p.allergies&&p.allergies!=='None'?'var(--danger)':'inherit'\}">$\{p.allergies||'None known'\}</p></div>\line 287          </div>\line 288        </div>\line 289  \line 290        <div class="tabs">\line 291          <div class="tab active" onclick="switchTab(this,'tab-records')">Medical Records ($\{records.length\})</div>\line 292          <div class="tab" onclick="switchTab(this,'tab-appts')">Appointments ($\{appointments.length\})</div>\line 293        </div>\line 294  \line 295        <div id="tab-records">\line 296          $\{records.length ? records.map(r => `\line 297            <div class="record-card">\line 298              <div class="record-header">\line 299                <div>\line 300                  <strong>$\{r.diagnosis||'No diagnosis'\}</strong>\line 301                  <div class="record-date">Visit: $\{formatDate(r.visit_date)\} \u\u By: $\{r.clinician_name\}</div>\line 302                </div>\line 303                <span class="badge badge-info">$\{formatDate(r.visit_date)\}</span>\line 304              </div>\line 305              <div class="record-body">\line 306                $\{r.chief_complaint ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Chief Complaint</div><p>$\{r.chief_complaint\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 307                $\{r.vital_signs ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Vital Signs</div><p>$\{r.vital_signs\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 308                $\{r.medications ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Medications</div><p>$\{r.medications\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 309                $\{r.treatment_plan ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Treatment Plan</div><p>$\{r.treatment_plan\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 310                $\{r.lab_results ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Lab Results</div><p>$\{r.lab_results\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 311                $\{r.notes ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Notes</div><p>$\{r.notes\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 312              </div>\line 313            </div>`).join('') : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No medical records','No records have been created for this patient yet.')\}\line 314        </div>\line 315  \line 316        <div id="tab-appts" style="display:none;">\line 317          $\{appointments.length ? `\line 318            <div class="table-container"><table>\line 319              <thead><tr><th>Date</th><th>Time</th><th>Clinician</th><th>Reason</th><th>Status</th></tr></thead>\line 320              <tbody>$\{appointments.map(a => `<tr>\line 321                <td>$\{formatDate(a.appointment_date)\}</td>\line 322                <td>$\{a.appointment_time\}</td>\line 323                <td>$\{a.clinician_name\}</td>\line 324                <td>$\{a.reason||'\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 325                <td>$\{statusBadge(a.status)\}</td>\line 326              </tr>`).join('')\}</tbody>\line 327            </table></div>` : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No appointments','No appointments recorded for this patient.')\}\line 328        </div>\line 329      `;\line 330    \}\line 331  \line 332    function switchTab(el, tabId) \{\line 333      document.querySelectorAll('.tab').forEach(t => t.classList.remove('active'));\line 334      el.classList.add('active');\line 335      ['tab-records','tab-appts'].forEach(id => \{\line 336        const el2 = document.getElementById(id);\line 337        if (el2) el2.style.display = id === tabId ? 'block' : 'none';\line 338      \});\line 339    \}\line 340  \line 341    async function loadRecords() \{\line 342      document.getElementById('records-list').innerHTML = '<div class="page-loader"><div class="spinner"></div></div>';\line 343      const res = await api.get('/clinician/records');\line 344      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 345      const records = res.data.data;\line 346      document.getElementById('records-list').innerHTML = records.length ?\line 347        records.map(r => `\line 348          <div class="record-card">\line 349            <div class="record-header">\line 350              <div>\line 351                <strong>$\{r.patient_name\}</strong>\line 352                <div class="record-date">$\{formatDate(r.visit_date)\} \u\u $\{r.diagnosis||'No diagnosis'\}</div>\line 353              </div>\line 354              <span class="badge badge-info">$\{formatDate(r.visit_date)\}</span>\line 355            </div>\line 356            <div class="info-grid" style="margin-top:10px;">\line 357              $\{r.chief_complaint ? `<div class="info-item"><label>Complaint</label><p>$\{r.chief_complaint\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 358              $\{r.vital_signs ? `<div class="info-item"><label>Vitals</label><p>$\{r.vital_signs\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 359              $\{r.medications ? `<div class="info-item"><label>Medications</label><p>$\{r.medications\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 360              $\{r.treatment_plan ? `<div class="info-item"><label>Treatment</label><p>$\{r.treatment_plan\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 361            </div>\line 362          </div>`).join('') : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No records','You have not created any records yet.');\line 363    \}\line 364  \line 365    async function loadAppointments() \{\line 366      document.getElementById('appts-table-body').innerHTML = '<tr><td colspan="6" style="text-align:center;padding:30px;">Loading...</td></tr>';\line 367      const res = await api.get('/clinician/appointments');\line 368      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 369      const apts = res.data.data;\line 370      document.getElementById('appts-table-body').innerHTML = apts.length ?\line 371        apts.map(a => `<tr>\line 372          <td><strong>$\{a.patient_name\}</strong><br><span style="font-size:11px;color:var(--gray-500);">$\{a.patient_email\}</span></td>\line 373          <td>$\{formatDate(a.appointment_date)\}</td>\line 374          <td>$\{a.appointment_time\}</td>\line 375          <td>$\{a.reason||'\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 376          <td>$\{statusBadge(a.status)\}</td>\line 377          <td>\line 378            $\{a.status==='scheduled' ? `\line 379              <button class="btn btn-success btn-sm" onclick="updateApptStatus($\{a.id\},'completed')">Complete</button>\line 380              <button class="btn btn-danger btn-sm" onclick="updateApptStatus($\{a.id\},'cancelled')">Cancel</button>\line 381            ` : '\u\u\u'\}\line 382          </td>\line 383        </tr>`).join('') :\line 384        `<tr><td colspan="6">$\{emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No appointments','')\}</td></tr>`;\line 385    \}\line 386  \line 387    function openNewRecordModal() \{\line 388      if (!allPatients.length) \{ loadPatients().then(() => openNewRecordModal()); return; \}\line 389      ['r-patient','r-date','r-complaint','r-diagnosis','r-vitals','r-medications','r-treatment','r-labs','r-notes'].forEach(id => \{\line 390        const el = document.getElementById(id);\line 391        if (el) el.value = '';\line 392      \});\line 393      document.getElementById('r-date').value = new Date().toISOString().split('T')[0];\line 394      document.getElementById('record-form-alert').style.display = 'none';\line 395      openModal('record-modal');\line 396    \}\line 397  \line 398    function openNewRecordForPatient(patientId, patientName) \{\line 399      openNewRecordModal();\line 400      document.getElementById('r-patient').value = patientId;\line 401    \}\line 402  \line 403    async function saveRecord() \{\line 404      const alertDiv = document.getElementById('record-form-alert');\line 405      const patient_id = document.getElementById('r-patient').value;\line 406      const visit_date = document.getElementById('r-date').value;\line 407      const diagnosis = document.getElementById('r-diagnosis').value.trim();\line 408  \line 409      if (!patient_id || !visit_date || !diagnosis) \{\line 410        alertDiv.className = 'alert alert-error';\line 411        alertDiv.textContent = 'Patient, visit date and diagnosis are required.';\line 412        alertDiv.style.display = 'flex';\line 413        return;\line 414      \}\line 415  \line 416      const res = await api.post('/clinician/records', \{\line 417        patient_id, visit_date,\line 418        chief_complaint: document.getElementById('r-complaint').value,\line 419        diagnosis,\line 420        vital_signs: document.getElementById('r-vitals').value,\line 421        medications: document.getElementById('r-medications').value,\line 422        treatment_plan: document.getElementById('r-treatment').value,\line 423        lab_results: document.getElementById('r-labs').value,\line 424        notes: document.getElementById('r-notes').value\line 425      \});\line 426  \line 427      if (res && res.ok) \{\line 428        closeModal('record-modal');\line 429        showToast('Medical record saved successfully.', 'success');\line 430        loadRecords();\line 431      \} else \{\line 432        alertDiv.className = 'alert alert-error';\line 433        alertDiv.textContent = res?.data?.message || 'Failed to save record.';\line 434        alertDiv.style.display = 'flex';\line 435      \}\line 436    \}\line 437  \line 438    function openApptModal() \{\line 439      if (!allPatients.length) \{ loadPatients().then(() => openApptModal()); return; \}\line 440      ['a-patient','a-date','a-time','a-reason','a-notes'].forEach(id => \{\line 441        const el = document.getElementById(id);\line 442        if (el) el.value = '';\line 443      \});\line 444      document.getElementById('appt-form-alert').style.display = 'none';\line 445      openModal('appt-modal');\line 446    \}\line 447  \line 448    async function saveAppt() \{\line 449      const alertDiv = document.getElementById('appt-form-alert');\line 450      const patient_id = document.getElementById('a-patient').value;\line 451      const appointment_date = document.getElementById('a-date').value;\line 452      const appointment_time = document.getElementById('a-time').value;\line 453  \line 454      if (!patient_id || !appointment_date || !appointment_time) \{\line 455        alertDiv.className = 'alert alert-error';\line 456        alertDiv.textContent = 'Patient, date and time are required.';\line 457        alertDiv.style.display = 'flex';\line 458        return;\line 459      \}\line 460  \line 461      const res = await api.post('/clinician/appointments', \{\line 462        patient_id, appointment_date, appointment_time,\line 463        reason: document.getElementById('a-reason').value,\line 464        notes: document.getElementById('a-notes').value\line 465      \});\line 466  \line 467      if (res && res.ok) \{\line 468        closeModal('appt-modal');\line 469        showToast('Appointment scheduled.', 'success');\line 470        loadAppointments();\line 471      \} else \{\line 472        alertDiv.className = 'alert alert-error';\line 473        alertDiv.textContent = res?.data?.message || 'Failed to schedule.';\line 474        alertDiv.style.display = 'flex';\line 475      \}\line 476    \}\line 477  \line 478    async function updateApptStatus(id, status) \{\line 479      const res = await api.put(`/clinician/appointments/$\{id\}/status`, \{ status \});\line 480      if (res && res.ok) \{ showToast(`Appointment marked as $\{status\}.`, 'success'); loadAppointments(); \}\line 481      else showToast('Failed to update status.', 'error');\line 482    \}\line 483  \line 484    loadDashboard();\line 485    loadPatients();\line 486  </script>\line 487  </body>\line 488  </html>\line 489  \par
\pard\cb0\par
\page
\pard\b\f0\fs25\sa220 Appendix B.7: Patient Dashboard\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 File Path: frontend/pages/patient/dashboard.html\par
\pard\i\f0\fs20\sa100 Section Description: Patient frontend for profile, records, appointments, and health summary.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 What this file does: This file defines the patient portal through which patients can review their own information securely.\par
\pard\f0\fs20\sa100 How this file is used in the system: After patient login, the page loads the patient summary, personal profile, personal medical records, and personal appointments using the patient-only backend endpoints. It is designed to demonstrate privacy-preserving self-service access under the RBAC model.\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Main responsibilities implemented in this file:\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Provides a home summary with recent visit and upcoming appointment information.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Displays personal demographic and emergency-contact details.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Shows the patient\u\u\us medical history and medication information.\par
\pard\f0\fs19\li360\sa70 - Allows filtering of appointments by status inside the portal.\par
\pard\sa120\par
\pard\b\f0\fs20\sa120 Full source code listing:\par
\pard\li240\ri120\cb1\f1\fs18\sa80
  1  <!DOCTYPE html>\line   2  <html lang="en">\line   3  <head>\line   4    <meta charset="UTF-8">\line   5    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">\line   6    <title>Patient Portal \u\u\u SecureEHR</title>\line   7    <link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/css/style.css">\line   8    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Inter:wght@400;500;600;700;800&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">\line   9  </head>\line  10  <body>\line  11  <div class="dashboard-layout">\line  12  \line  13    <aside class="sidebar">\line  14      <div class="sidebar-header">\line  15        <div class="sidebar-logo">\line  16          <div class="logo-icon">\u\u\u\u</div>\line  17          <div class="sidebar-logo-text"><h2>SecureEHR</h2><p>Patient Portal</p></div>\line  18        </div>\line  19      </div>\line  20      <div class="sidebar-user">\line  21        <div class="user-avatar"></div>\line  22        <div class="sidebar-user-info">\line  23          <div class="name sidebar-user-name"></div>\line  24          <div class="role sidebar-user-role"></div>\line  25        </div>\line  26      </div>\line  27      <nav class="sidebar-nav">\line  28        <div class="nav-section-title">My Health</div>\line  29        <div class="nav-item active" data-page="dashboard" onclick="showSection('dashboard')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Home</div>\line  30        <div class="nav-item" data-page="profile" onclick="showSection('profile')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> My Profile</div>\line  31        <div class="nav-item" data-page="records" onclick="showSection('records')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Medical Records</div>\line  32        <div class="nav-item" data-page="appointments" onclick="showSection('appointments')"><span class="icon">\u\u\u\u</span> Appointments</div>\line  33      </nav>\line  34      <div class="sidebar-footer">\line  35        <button class="logout-btn" onclick="logout()"><span>\u\u\u\u</span> Sign Out</button>\line  36      </div>\line  37    </aside>\line  38  \line  39    <main class="main-content">\line  40      <div class="topbar">\line  41        <div class="topbar-title"><h1 id="section-title">Home</h1><p id="section-subtitle">Your personal health portal</p></div>\line  42        <div style="display:flex; align-items:center; gap:12px;">\line  43          <span class="badge badge-patient">Patient</span>\line  44          <span class="topbar-user-name" style="font-weight:600; font-size:13px;"></span>\line  45        </div>\line  46      </div>\line  47  \line  48      <div class="page-content">\line  49  \line  50        <!-- HOME / SUMMARY -->\line  51        <section id="sec-dashboard">\line  52          <div class="alert alert-info" style="margin-bottom:20px;">\line  53            \u\u\u\u <strong>Secure Access:</strong> Your health records are protected by Role-Based Access Control. Only you and authorised healthcare professionals can view your data.\line  54          </div>\line  55          <div class="stats-grid" id="summary-stats"></div>\line  56          <div style="display:grid; grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr; gap:20px; margin-top:4px;">\line  57            <div class="card">\line  58              <div class="card-header"><div><h3>Last Visit</h3><p>Most recent clinical encounter</p></div></div>\line  59              <div id="last-visit-content"></div>\line  60            </div>\line  61            <div class="card">\line  62              <div class="card-header"><div><h3>Next Appointment</h3><p>Your upcoming scheduled visit</p></div></div>\line  63              <div id="next-appt-content"></div>\line  64            </div>\line  65          </div>\line  66          <div class="card" style="margin-top:20px;">\line  67            <div class="card-header"><div><h3>Active Medications</h3><p>Medications from your most recent visit</p></div></div>\line  68            <div id="medications-content"></div>\line  69          </div>\line  70        </section>\line  71  \line  72        <!-- PROFILE -->\line  73        <section id="sec-profile" style="display:none;">\line  74          <div class="card">\line  75            <div class="card-header"><h3>My Profile</h3></div>\line  76            <div id="profile-content"><div class="page-loader"><div class="spinner"></div></div></div>\line  77          </div>\line  78        </section>\line  79  \line  80        <!-- MEDICAL RECORDS -->\line  81        <section id="sec-records" style="display:none;">\line  82          <div class="card">\line  83            <div class="card-header"><div><h3>My Medical Records</h3><p>Your complete health history</p></div></div>\line  84            <div class="alert alert-info" style="margin-bottom:16px;">\line  85              You can view your medical records here. If you believe there are any errors, please contact your clinician.\line  86            </div>\line  87            <div id="patient-records-list"><div class="page-loader"><div class="spinner"></div></div></div>\line  88          </div>\line  89        </section>\line  90  \line  91        <!-- APPOINTMENTS -->\line  92        <section id="sec-appointments" style="display:none;">\line  93          <div class="card">\line  94            <div class="card-header"><div><h3>My Appointments</h3><p>Your scheduled and past appointments</p></div></div>\line  95            <div class="tabs">\line  96              <div class="tab active" onclick="filterAppts(this,'all')">All</div>\line  97              <div class="tab" onclick="filterAppts(this,'scheduled')">Upcoming</div>\line  98              <div class="tab" onclick="filterAppts(this,'completed')">Completed</div>\line  99            </div>\line 100            <div class="table-container">\line 101              <table>\line 102                <thead><tr><th>Date</th><th>Time</th><th>Clinician</th><th>Reason</th><th>Status</th></tr></thead>\line 103                <tbody id="patient-appts-body"></tbody>\line 104              </table>\line 105            </div>\line 106          </div>\line 107        </section>\line 108  \line 109      </div>\line 110    </main>\line 111  </div>\line 112  \line 113  <script src="/assets/js/app.js"></script>\line 114  <script>\line 115    let allAppts = [];\line 116    if (!requireAuth(['patient'])) throw new Error('auth');\line 117    initSidebar('dashboard');\line 118  \line 119    function showSection(name) \{\line 120      ['dashboard','profile','records','appointments'].forEach(s => \{\line 121        document.getElementById(`sec-$\{s\}`).style.display = s === name ? 'block' : 'none';\line 122      \});\line 123      document.querySelectorAll('.nav-item').forEach(el => el.classList.toggle('active', el.dataset.page === name));\line 124      const titles = \{\line 125        dashboard: ['Home','Your personal health portal'],\line 126        profile: ['My Profile','Your personal and medical details'],\line 127        records: ['Medical Records','Your complete health history'],\line 128        appointments: ['Appointments','Your scheduled and past visits']\line 129      \};\line 130      document.getElementById('section-title').textContent = titles[name][0];\line 131      document.getElementById('section-subtitle').textContent = titles[name][1];\line 132      if (name === 'profile') loadProfile();\line 133      if (name === 'records') loadRecords();\line 134      if (name === 'appointments') loadAppointments();\line 135    \}\line 136  \line 137    async function loadSummary() \{\line 138      const res = await api.get('/patient/summary');\line 139      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 140      const d = res.data.data;\line 141  \line 142      document.getElementById('summary-stats').innerHTML = `\line 143        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon blue">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.total_visits\}</div><div class="label">Total Visits</div></div></div>\line 144        <div class="stat-card"><div class="stat-icon yellow">\u\u\u\u</div><div class="stat-info"><div class="value">$\{d.upcoming_appointments\}</div><div class="label">Upcoming Appointments</div></div></div>\line 145      `;\line 146  \line 147      document.getElementById('last-visit-content').innerHTML = d.last_visit ?\line 148        `<div style="padding:10px 0;">\line 149          <div style="font-size:22px; font-weight:800; color:var(--gray-900); margin-bottom:4px;">$\{formatDate(d.last_visit.visit_date)\}</div>\line 150          <div style="font-size:14px; color:var(--gray-600);">$\{d.last_visit.diagnosis||'No diagnosis recorded'\}</div>\line 151          <div style="margin-top:12px;"><button class="btn btn-outline btn-sm" onclick="showSection('records')">View Records \u\u\u</button></div>\line 152        </div>` : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No visits yet','You have no recorded clinical visits.');\line 153  \line 154      document.getElementById('next-appt-content').innerHTML = d.next_appointment ?\line 155        `<div style="padding:10px 0;">\line 156          <div style="font-size:18px; font-weight:800; color:var(--primary); margin-bottom:4px;">$\{formatDate(d.next_appointment.appointment_date)\} at $\{d.next_appointment.appointment_time\}</div>\line 157          <div style="font-size:14px; color:var(--gray-600); margin-bottom:4px;">With: <strong>$\{d.next_appointment.clinician_name\}</strong></div>\line 158          <div style="font-size:13px; color:var(--gray-500);">$\{d.next_appointment.reason||'Routine visit'\}</div>\line 159        </div>` : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No upcoming appointments','');\line 160  \line 161      document.getElementById('medications-content').innerHTML = d.active_medications?.medications ?\line 162        `<div style="background:var(--gray-50); border-radius:8px; padding:14px; border:1px solid var(--gray-200);">\line 163          <p style="font-size:14px; color:var(--gray-800); line-height:1.6;">$\{d.active_medications.medications\}</p>\line 164          <p style="font-size:11px; color:var(--gray-400); margin-top:8px;">From your most recent visit. Always follow your clinician's instructions.</p>\line 165        </div>` : emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No medications','No active medications from recent visits.');\line 166    \}\line 167  \line 168    async function loadProfile() \{\line 169      const res = await api.get('/patient/profile');\line 170      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 171      const p = res.data.data;\line 172      document.getElementById('profile-content').innerHTML = `\line 173        <div style="display:flex; align-items:center; gap:16px; margin-bottom:24px; padding-bottom:20px; border-bottom:1px solid var(--gray-100);">\line 174          <div style="width:64px;height:64px;border-radius:50%;background:var(--secondary);display:flex;align-items:center;justify-content:center;color:white;font-weight:800;font-size:22px;">$\{p.name.split(' ').map(n=>n[0]).join('').substring(0,2)\}</div>\line 175          <div>\line 176            <h2 style="font-size:20px;">$\{p.name\}</h2>\line 177            <p style="color:var(--gray-500);">$\{p.email\}</p>\line 178            <span class="badge badge-patient" style="margin-top:4px;">Patient</span>\line 179          </div>\line 180        </div>\line 181        <div class="info-grid">\line 182          <div class="info-item"><label>Date of Birth</label><p>$\{p.date_of_birth ? formatDate(p.date_of_birth) : '\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 183          <div class="info-item"><label>Gender</label><p>$\{p.gender||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 184          <div class="info-item"><label>Blood Group</label><p>$\{p.blood_group||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 185          <div class="info-item"><label>Phone</label><p>$\{p.phone||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 186          <div class="info-item"><label>Address</label><p>$\{p.address||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 187          <div class="info-item"><label>Emergency Contact</label><p>$\{p.emergency_contact||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 188          <div class="info-item"><label>Emergency Phone</label><p>$\{p.emergency_phone||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 189          <div class="info-item"><label>Insurance Number</label><p>$\{p.insurance_number||'\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 190          <div class="info-item"><label style="color:var(--danger);">Known Allergies</label><p style="color:$\{p.allergies&&p.allergies!=='None'?'var(--danger)':'inherit'\}">$\{p.allergies||'None known'\}</p></div>\line 191          <div class="info-item"><label>Member Since</label><p>$\{formatDate(p.created_at)\}</p></div>\line 192          <div class="info-item"><label>Last Login</label><p>$\{p.last_login ? formatDateTime(p.last_login) : '\u\u\u'\}</p></div>\line 193        </div>\line 194      `;\line 195    \}\line 196  \line 197    async function loadRecords() \{\line 198      const res = await api.get('/patient/records');\line 199      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 200      const records = res.data.data;\line 201      document.getElementById('patient-records-list').innerHTML = records.length ?\line 202        records.map(r => `\line 203          <div class="record-card">\line 204            <div class="record-header">\line 205              <div>\line 206                <strong style="font-size:15px;">$\{r.diagnosis||'Visit Record'\}</strong>\line 207                <div class="record-date">Visit Date: $\{formatDate(r.visit_date)\} \u\u Clinician: $\{r.clinician_name\}</div>\line 208              </div>\line 209              <span class="badge badge-info">$\{formatDate(r.visit_date)\}</span>\line 210            </div>\line 211            <div class="record-body">\line 212              $\{r.chief_complaint ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Chief Complaint</div><p>$\{r.chief_complaint\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 213              $\{r.vital_signs ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Vital Signs</div><p>$\{r.vital_signs\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 214              $\{r.medications ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Medications Prescribed</div><p>$\{r.medications\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 215              $\{r.treatment_plan ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Treatment Plan</div><p>$\{r.treatment_plan\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 216              $\{r.lab_results ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Laboratory Results</div><p>$\{r.lab_results\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 217              $\{r.notes ? `<div class="record-section"><div class="record-section-title">Clinical Notes</div><p>$\{r.notes\}</p></div>` : ''\}\line 218            </div>\line 219            <div style="font-size:11px; color:var(--gray-400); margin-top:10px; padding-top:10px; border-top:1px solid var(--gray-100);">\line 220              Record created: $\{formatDateTime(r.created_at)\} $\{r.updated_at !== r.created_at ? '\u\u Updated: '+formatDateTime(r.updated_at) : ''\}\line 221            </div>\line 222          </div>`).join('') :\line 223        emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No medical records','Your health records will appear here once your clinician adds them.');\line 224    \}\line 225  \line 226    async function loadAppointments() \{\line 227      const res = await api.get('/patient/appointments');\line 228      if (!res || !res.ok) return;\line 229      allAppts = res.data.data;\line 230      renderAppts(allAppts);\line 231    \}\line 232  \line 233    function renderAppts(appts) \{\line 234      document.getElementById('patient-appts-body').innerHTML = appts.length ?\line 235        appts.map(a => `<tr>\line 236          <td><strong>$\{formatDate(a.appointment_date)\}</strong></td>\line 237          <td>$\{a.appointment_time\}</td>\line 238          <td>$\{a.clinician_name\}</td>\line 239          <td>$\{a.reason||'\u\u\u'\}</td>\line 240          <td>$\{statusBadge(a.status)\}</td>\line 241        </tr>`).join('') :\line 242        `<tr><td colspan="5">$\{emptyState('\u\u\u\u','No appointments','')\}</td></tr>`;\line 243    \}\line 244  \line 245    function filterAppts(el, filter) \{\line 246      document.querySelectorAll('.tab').forEach(t => t.classList.remove('active'));\line 247      el.classList.add('active');\line 248      renderAppts(filter === 'all' ? allAppts : allAppts.filter(a => a.status === filter));\line 249    \}\line 250  \line 251    loadSummary();\line 252  </script>\line 253  </body>\line 254  </html>\line 255  \par
\pard\cb0\par
}

